MONDAY  JULY 2nd.   IN CONVENTION

On the question for allowing each State one vote in the second branch as
moved by Mr. Elseworth, [1] Massts. no. Cont. ay. N. Y. ay. N. J. ay.
Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. ay. Mr. Jenifer being not present Mr. Martin alone
voted Va no. N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. divd. Mr. Houston no. Mr. Baldwin
ay.

Mr. PINKNEY thought an equality of votes in the 2d. branch inadmissible.
At the same time candor obliged him to admit that the large States would
feel a partiality for their own Citizens & give them a preference, in
appointments: that they might also find some common points in their
commercial interests, and promote treaties favorable to them. There is a
real distinction [3] the Northern & Southn. interests. N. Carola. S.
Carol: & Geo. in their Rice & Indigo had a peculiar interest which might
be sacrificed. How then shall the larger States be prevented from
administering the Genl. Govt. as they please, without being themselves
unduly subjected to the will of the smaller? By allowing them some but
not a full proportion. He was extremely anxious that something should be
done, considering this as the last appeal to a regular experiment.
Congs. have failed in almost every effort for an amendment of the
federal System. Nothing has prevented a dissolution of it, but the
appointmt. of this Convention; & he could not express his alarms for the
consequences of such an event He read his motion, to form the States
into classes, with an apportionment of Senators among them, [see art. 4,
of his plan].

General PINKNEY. was willing the motion might be considered. He did not
entirely approve it. He liked better the motion of Docr. Franklin [which
see Saturday June 30]. Some compromise seemed to be necessary: the
States being exactly divided on the question for an equality of votes in
the 2d. branch. He proposed that a Committee consisting of a member from
each State should be appointed to devise & report some compromise.

Mr. L. MARTIN had no objection to a commitment, but no modifications
whatever could reconcile the Smaller States to the least diminution of
their equal Sovereignty.

Mr. SHARMAN. We are now at a full stop, and nobody he supposed meant
that we shd. break up without doing something. A committee he thought
most likely to hit on some expedient.

[4] Mr. Govr. MORRIS. thought a Come. adviseable as the Convention had
been equally divided. He had a stronger reason also. The mode of
appointing the 2d. branch tended he was sure to defeat the object of it.
What is this object? to check the precipitation, changeableness, and
excesses of the first branch. Every man of observation had seen in the
democratic branches of the State Legislatures, precipitation -- in
Congress changeableness, in every department excesses agst. personal
liberty private property & personal safety. What qualities are necessary
to constitute a check in this case? Abilities and virtue, are equally
necessary in both branches. Something more then is now wanted. 1. [6]
the checking branch must have a personal interest in checking the other
branch, one interest must be opposed to another interest. Vices as they
exist, must be turned agst. each other. 2. [7] It must have great
personal property, it must have the aristocratic spirit; it must love to
lord it thro' pride, pride is indeed the great principle that actuates
both the poor & the rich. It is this principle which in the former
resists, in the latter abuses authority. 3. [8] It should be
independent. In Religion the Creature is apt to forget its Creator. That
it is otherwise in political affairs, the late debates here are an
unhappy proof. The aristocratic body, should be as independent & as firm
as the democratic. If the members of it are to revert to a dependence on
the democratic choice, the democratic scale will preponderate. All the
guards contrived by America have not restrained the Senatorial branches
of the Legislatures from a servile complaisance to the democratic. If
the 2d. branch is to be dependent we are better without it. To make it
independent, it should be for life. It will then do wrong, it will be
said. He believed so: He hoped so. The Rich will strive to establish
their dominion & enslave the rest. They always did. They always will.
The proper security agst them is to form them into a separate interest.
The two forces will then controul each other. Let the rich mix with the
poor and in a Commercial Country, they will establish an oligarchy. Take
away commerce, and the democracy will triumph. Thus it has been all the
world over. So it will be among us. Reason tells us we are but men: and
we are not to expect any particular interference of Heaven in our favor.
By thus combining & setting apart, the aristocratic interest, the
popular interest will be combined agst. it. There will be a mutual check
and mutual security. 4. [9] An independence for life, involves the
necessary permanency. If we change our measures no body will trust us:
and how avoid a change of measures, but by avoiding a change of men. Ask
any man if he confides in Congs. if he confides in the State of Pena. if
he will lend his money or enter into contract? He will tell you no. He
sees no stability. He can repose no confidence. If G. B. were to explain
her refusal to treat with us, the same reasoning would be employed. --
He disliked the exclusion of the 2d. branch from holding offices. It is
dangerous. It is like the imprudent exclusion of the military officers
during the war, from civil appointments. It deprives the Executive of
the principal source of influence. If danger be apprehended from the
Executive what a lift-handed way is this of obviating it? If the son,
the brother or the friend can be appointed, the danger may be even
increased, as the disqualified father &c. can then boast of a
disinterestedness which he does not possess. Besides shall the best, the
most able, the most virtuous citizens not be permitted to hold offices?
Who then are to hold them? He was also agst. paying the Senators. They
will pay themselves if they can. If they can not they will be rich and
can do without it. Of such the 2d. branch ought to consist; and none but
such can compose it if they are not to be paid -- He contended that the
Executive should appoint the Senate & fill up vacancies. This gets rid
of the difficulty in the present question. You may begin with any ratio
you please; it will come to the same thing. The members being independt.
& for life, may be taken as well from one place as from another. -- It
should be considered too how the scheme could be carried through the
States. He hoped there was strength of mind eno' in this House to look
truth in the face. He did not hesitate therefore to say that loaves &
fishes must bribe the Demagogues. They must be made to expect higher
offices under the general than the State Govts. A Senate for life will
be a noble bait. Without such captivating prospects, the popular leaders
will oppose & defeat the plan. He perceived that the 1st. branch was to
be chosen by the people of the States: the 2d. by those chosen by the
people. Is not here a Govt. by the States. A Governt. by Compact between
Virga. in the 1st. & 2d. branch; Masts. in the 1st. & 2d. branch &c.
This is going back to mere treaty. It is no Govt. at all. It is
altogether dependent on the States, and will act over again the part
which Congs. has acted. A firm Governt. alone can protect our liberties.
He fears the influence of the rich. They will have the same effect here
as elsewhere if we do not by such a Govt. keep them within their proper
sphere. [10] We should remember that the people never act from reason
alone. The Rich will take [11] advantage of their passions & make these
the instruments for oppressing them. The Result of the Contest will be a
violent aristocracy, or a more violent despotism. The schemes of the
Rich will be favored by the extent of the Country. The people in such
distant parts can not communicate & act in concert. They will be the
dupes of those who have more knowledge & intercourse. The only security
agst. encroachments will be a select & sagacious body of men, instituted
to watch agst. them on all sides. He meant only to hint these
observations, without grounding any motion on them.

Mr. RANDOLPH favored the commitment though he did not expect much
benefit from the expedient. He animadverted on the warm & rash language
of Mr. Bedford on Saturday; reminded the small States that if the large
States should combine some danger of which he did not deny there would
be a check in the revisionary power of the Executive, and intimated that
in order to render this still more effectual, he would agree that in the
choice of the [12] Executive each State should have an equal vote. He
was persuaded that two such opposite bodies as Mr. Morris had planned,
could never long co-exist. Dissentions would arise as has been seen even
between the Senate and H. of Delegates in Maryland, appeals would be
made to the people; and in a little time, commotions would be the result
-- He was far from thinking the large States could subsist of themselves
any more than the small; an avulsion would involve the whole in ruin,
and he was determined to pursue such a scheme of Government as would
secure us agst. such a calamity.

Mr. STRONG was for the Commitment; and hoped the mode of constituting
both branches would be referred. If they should be established on
different principles, contentions would prevail, and there would never
be a concurrence in necessary measures. DOCr. WILLIAMSON. If we do not
concede on both sides, our business must soon be at an end. He approved
of the Commitment, supposing that as the Come. wd. be a smaller body, a
compromise would be pursued with more coolness.

Mr. WILSON objected to the Committee, because it would decide according
to that very rule of voting which was opposed on one side. Experience in
Congs. had also proved the inutility of Committees consisting of members
from each State.

Mr. LANSING wd. not oppose the commitment, though expecting little
advantage from it.

Mr. MADISON opposed the Commitment. He had rarely seen any other effect
than delay from such Committees in Congs. Any scheme of compromise that
could be proposed in the Committee might as easily be proposed in the
House; and the report of the Committee when [13] it contained merely the
opinion of the Come. would neither shorten the discussion, nor influence
the decision of the House.

Mr. GERRY was for the Commitmt. Something must be done, or we shall
disappoint not only America, but the whole world. He suggested a
consideration of the State we should be thrown into by the failure of
the Union. We should be without an Umpire to decide controversies and
must be at the mercy of events. What too is to become of our treaties --
what of our foreign debts, what of our domestic? We must make
concessions on both sides. Without these the Constitutions of the
several States would never have been formed.

On the question "for committing," generally:

Masts. ay. Cont. ay. N. Y. ay. N. J. no. P. ay. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay.
N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [14]

On the question for committing [15] "to a member from each State."

Massts. ay. Cont. ay. N. Y. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va.
ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [16]

The Committee elected by ballot, were Mr. Gerry, Mr. Elseworth, Mr.
Yates, Mr. Patterson, Dr. Franklin, Mr. Bedford, Mr. Martin, Mr. Mason,
Mr. Davy, Mr. Rutlidge, Mr. Baldwin.

That time might be given to the Committee, and to such as chose to
attend to the celebrations on the anniversary of Independence, the
Convention adjourned till Thursday.

___________

1. The phrase "it was lost by an equal division of votes," is here
inserted in the transcript and the vote reads: "Connecticut, New York,
New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, [2] aye -- 5; Massachusetts,
Pennsylvania, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, no -- 5;
Georgia, divided [Mr. Baldwin, aye, Mr. Houston, No]." The footnote
referring to Maryland reads: "Mr. Jenifer not being present, Mr. Martin
alone voted."

2. Transfer hither the marginal note. [5]

3. The word "between" is here inserted in the transcript. See Appendix
to Debates, IV, No. 3, p. 600.

4. He had just returned from N.Y. havg. left ye. Convention a few days
after it commenced business.

5. Madison's direction concerning the footnote is omitted in the
transcript.

6. The figure "1" is changed to "In the first place" in the transcript.

7. The figure "2" is changed to "In the second place" in the transcript.

8. The figure "3" is changed to "In the third place" in the transcript.

9. The figure "4" is changed to "In the fourth place" in the transcript.

10. The transcript uses the word "sphere" in the plural.

11. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

12. The word "an" is substituted in the transcript for "the."

13. The word "where" is substituted in the transcript for "when."

14. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
York, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina,
Georgia, aye -- 9; New Jersey, Delaware, no -- 2."

15. The word "it" is here inserted in the transcript.

16. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
York, New Jersey, Delaware Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 10; Pennsylvania, no -- 1."


