WEDNESDAY  AUGUST 29th, 1787 [1]  IN CONVENTION

Art: XVI. [2, 3], taken up.

Mr. WILLIAMSON moved to substitute in place of it, the words of the
Articles of Confederation on the same subject. He did not understand
precisely the meaning of the article.

Mr. WILSON & DOCr. JOHNSON supposed the meaning to be that Judgments in
one State should be the ground of actions in other States, & that acts
of the Legislatures should be included, for the sake of Acts of
insolvency &c.

Mr. PINKNEY moved to commit art XVI, with the following proposition, "To
establish uniform laws upon the subject of bankruptcies, and respecting
the damages arising on the protest of foreign bills of exchange"

Mr. GHORUM was for agreeing to the article, and committing the
proposition.

Mr. MADISON was for committing both. He wished the Legislature might be
authorized to provide for the execution of Judgments in other States,
under such regulations as might be expedient. He thought that this might
be safely done, and was justified by the nature of the Union.

Mr. RANDOLPH said there was no instance of one nation executing
judgments of the Courts of another nation. He moved the following
proposition:

"Whenever the act of any State, whether Legislative, Executive or
Judiciary shall be attested & exemplified under the seal thereof, such
attestation and exemplification, shall be deemed in other States as full
proof of the existence of that act -- and its operation shall be binding
in every other State, in all cases to which it may relate, and which are
within the cognizance and jurisdiction of the State, wherein the said
act was done."

On the question for committing Art: XVI. with Mr. Pinkney's motion

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay. N.
C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [4]

The motion of Mr. Randolph was also committed nem: con:

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved to commit also the following proposition on the
same subject.

"Full faith ought to be given in each State to the public acts, records,
and judicial proceedings of every other State; and the Legislature shall
by general laws, determine the proof and effect of such acts, records,
and proceedings," and it was committed nem: contrad:

The committee appointed for these references, were Mr. Rutlidge, Mr.
Randolph, Mr. Gorham, Mr. Wilson, & Mr. Johnson.

Mr. DICKENSON mentioned to the House that on examining Blackstone's
Commentaries, he found that the terms, [5] "ex post facto" related to
criminal cases only; that they would not consequently restrain the
States from retrospective laws in civil cases, and that some further
provision for this purpose would be requisite.

Art. VII Sect. 6 by ye. Committee of eleven reported to be struck out
(see the 24 instant) being now taken up,

Mr. PINKNEY moved to postpone the Report in favor of the following
proposition -- "That no act of the Legislature for the purpose of
regulating the commerce of the U- S. with foreign powers, or among the
several States, shall be passed without the assent of two thirds of the
members of each House." He remarked that there were five distinct
commercial interests. 1. the fisheries & W. India trade, which belonged
to the N. England States. 2. the interest of N. York lay in a free
trade. 3. Wheat & flour the Staples of the two Middle States (N. J. &
Penna.). 4 Tobo. the staple of Maryd. & Virginia & partly of N.
Carolina. 5. Rice & Indigo, the staples of S. Carolina & Georgia. These
different interests would be a source of oppressive regulations if no
check to a bare majority should be provided. States pursue their
interests with less scruple than individuals. The power of regulating
commerce was a pure concession on the part of the S. States. They did
not need the protection of the N. States at present.

Mr. MARTIN 2ded. the motion

Genl. PINKNEY said it was the true interest of the S. States to have no
regulation of commerce; but considering the loss brought on the commerce
of the Eastern States by the revolution, their liberal conduct towards
the views [*6] of South Carolina, and the interest the weak Southn.
States had in being united with the strong Eastern States, he thought it
proper that no fetters should be imposed on the power of making
commercial regulations; and that his constituents though prejudiced
against the Eastern States, would be reconciled to this liberality. He
had himself, he said, prejudices agst. the Eastern States before he came
here, but would acknowledge that he had found them as liberal and candid
as any men whatever.

Mr. CLYMER. The diversity of commercial interests of necessity creates
difficulties, which ought not to be increased by unnecessary
restrictions. The Northern & middle States will be ruined, if not
enabled to defend themselves against foreign regulations.

Mr. SHERMAN, alluding to Mr. Pinkney's enumeration of particular
interests, as requiring a security agst. abuse of the power; observed
that the diversity was of itself a security, adding that to require more
than a majority to decide a question was always embarrassing as had been
experienced in cases requiring the votes of nine States in Congress.

Mr. PINKNEY replied that his enumeration meant the five minute
interests. It still left the two great divisions of Northern & Southern
Interests.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS, opposed the object of the motion as highly injurious.
Preferences to American ships will multiply them, till they can carry
the Southern produce cheaper than it is now carried. -- A navy was
essential to security, particularly of the S. States, and can only be
had by a navigation act encouraging American bottoms & seamen. In those
points of view then alone, itis the interest of the S. States that
navigation acts should be facilitated. Shipping he said was the worst &
most precarious kind of property, and stood in need of public patronage.

Mr. WILLIAMSON was in favor of making two thirds instead of a majority
requisite, as more satisfactory to the Southern people. No useful
measure he believed had been lost in Congress for want of nine votes. As
to the weakness of the Southern States, he was not alarmed on that
account. The sickliness of their climate for invaders would prevent
their being made an object. He acknowledged that he did not think the
motion requiring 2/3 necessary in itself, because if a majority of 7
Northern States should push their regulations too far, the S. States
would build ships for themselves: but he knew the Southern people were
apprehensive on this subject and would be pleased with the precaution.

Mr. SPAIGHT was against the motion. The Southern States could at any
time save themselves from oppression, by building ships for their own
use.

Mr. BUTLER differed from those who considered the rejection of the
motion as no concession on the part of the S. States. He considered the
interests of these and of the Eastern States, to be as different as the
interests of Russia and Turkey. Being notwith-standing desirous of
conciliating the affections of the East: States. he should vote agst.
requiring 2/3 instead of a majority.

Col. MASON. If the Govt. is to be lasting, it must be founded in the
confidence & affections of the people, and must be so constructed as to
obtain these. The Majority will be governed by their interests. The
Southern States are the minority in both Houses. Is it to be expected
that they will deliver themselves bound hand & foot to the Eastern
States, and enable them to exclaim, in the words of Cromwell on a
certain occasion -- "the lord hath delivered them into our hands.

Mr. WILSON took notice of the several objections and remarked that if
every peculiar interest was to be secured, unanimity ought to be
required. The majority he said would be no more governed by interest
than the minority. It was surely better to let the latter be bound hand
and foot than the former. Great inconveniences had, he contended, been
experienced in Congress from the article of confederation requiring nine
votes in certain cases.

Mr. MADISON, went into a pretty full view of the subject. He observed
that the disadvantage to the S. States from a navigation act, lay
chiefly in a temporary rise of freight, attended however with an
increase of Southn. as well as Northern Shipping -- with the emigration
of Northern Seamen & merchants to the Southern States -- & with a
removal of the existing & injurious retaliations among the States on
each other. The power of foreign nations to obstruct our retaliating
measures on them by a corrupt influence would also be less if a majority
shd. be made competent than if 2/3 of each House shd. be required to
Legislative acts in this case. An abuse of the power would be qualified
with all these good effects. But he thought an abuse was rendered
improbable by the provision of 2 branches -- by the independence of the
Senate, by the negative of the Executive, by the interest of Connecticut
& N: Jersey which were agricultural, not commercial States; by the
interior interest which was also agricultural in the most commercial
States, [8] by the accession of Western States which wd. be altogether
agricultural. He added that the Southern States would derive an
essential advantage in the general security afforded by the increase of
our maritime strength. He stated the vulnerable situation of them all,
and of Virginia in particular. The increase of the coasting trade, and
of seamen, would also be favorable to the S. States, by increasing, the
consumption of their produce. If the Wealth of the Eastern should in a
still greater proportion be augmented, that wealth wd. contribute the
more to the public wants, and be otherwise a national benefit.

Mr. RUTLIDGE was agst. the motion of his colleague. It did not follow
from a grant of the power to regulate trade, that it would be abused. At
the worst a navigation act could bear hard a little while only on the S.
States. As we are laying the foundation for a great empire, we ought to
take a permanent view of the subject and not look at the present moment
only. He reminded the House of the necessity of securing the West India
trade to this country. That was the great object, and a navigation Act
was necessary for obtaining it.

Mr. RANDOLPH said that there were features so odious in the constitution
as it now stands, that he doubted whether he should be able to agree to
it. A rejection of the motion would compleat the deformity of the
system. He took notice of the argument in favor of giving the power over
trade to a majority, drawn from the opportunity foreign powers would
have of obstructing retaliating [9] measures, if two thirds were made
requisite. He did not think there was weight in that consideration. The
difference between a majority & two thirds did not afford room for such
an opportunity. Foreign influence would also be more likely to be
exerted on the President who could require three fourths by his
negative. He did not mean however to enter into the merits. What he had
in view was merely to pave the way for a declaration which he might be
hereafter obliged to make if an accumulation of obnoxious ingredients
should take place, that he could not give his assent to the plan.

Mr. GORHAM. If the Government is to be so fettered as to be unable to
relieve the Eastern States what motive can they have to join in it, and
thereby tie their own hands from measures which they could otherwise
take for themselves. The Eastern States were not led to strengthen the
Union by fear for their own safety. He deprecated the consequences of
disunion, but if it should take place it was the Southern part of the
Continent that had the [10] most reason to dread them. He urged the
improbability of a combination against the interest of the Southern
States, the different situations of the Northern & Middle States being a
security against it. It was moreover certain that foreign ships would
never be altogether excluded especially those of Nations in treaty with
us.

On the question to pospone in order to take up Mr. Pinkney's Motion

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay. N.
C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. ay. [11]

The Report of the Committee for striking out sect: 6. requiring two
thirds of each House to pass a navigation act was then agreed to, nem:
con:

Mr. BUTLER moved to insert after art: XV. "If any person bound to
service or labor in any of the U. States shall escape into another
State, he or she shall not be discharged from such service or labor, in
consequence of any regulations subsisting in the State to which they
escape, but shall be delivered up to the person justly claiming their
service or labor," which was agreed to nem: con:

Art: XVII [12] being [13] taken up, Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved to strike out
the two last sentences, to wit "If the admission be consented to, the
new States shall be admitted on the same terms with the original States.
But the Legislature may make conditions with the new States, concerning
the public debt, which shall be then subsisting." -- He did not wish to
bind down the Legislature to admit Western States on the terms here
stated.

Mr. MADISON opposed the motion, insisting that the Western States
neither would nor ought to submit to a union which degraded them from an
equal rank with [17] other States.

Col: MASON. If it were possible by just means to prevent emigrations to
the Western Country, it might be good policy. But go the people will as
they find it for their interest, and the best policy is to treat them
with that equality which will make them friends not enemies.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS, did not mean to discourage the growth of the Western
Country. He knew that to be impossible. He did not wish however to throw
the power into their hands.

Mr. SHERMAN, was agst. the motion, & for fixing an equality of
privileges by the Constitution.

Mr. LANGDON was in favor of the Motion, he did not know but
circumstances might arise which would render it inconvenient to admit
new States on terms of equality.

Mr. WILLIAMSON was for leaving the Legislature free. The existing small
States enjoy an equality now, and for that reason are admitted to it in
the Senate. This reason is not applicable to new Western States.

On Mr. Govr. Morris's motion for striking out.

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. no. Va. no. N.
C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [14]

Mr. L. MARTIN & Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved to strike out of art XVII. "but
to such admission the consent of two thirds of the members present shall
be necessary." Before any question was taken on this motion,

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved the following proposition as a substitute for the
XVII art:

"New States may be admitted by the Legislature into this Union: but no
new State shall be erected within the limits of any of the present
States, without the consent of the Legislature of such State, as well as
of the Genl. Legislature"

The first part to Union inclusive was agreed to nem: con:

Mr. L. MARTIN opposed the latter part. Nothing he said would so alarm
the limited States as to make the consent of the large States claiming
the Western lands, necessary to the establishment of new States within
their limits. It is proposed to guarantee the States. Shall Vermont be
reduced by force in favor of the States claiming it? Frankland & the
Western country of Virginia were in a like situation.

On Mr. Govr. Morris's motion to substitute &c it was agreed to.

N. H. no. Mas. ay. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. no. Va. ay. N.
C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [15]

Art: XVII -- [16] before the House, as amended.

Mr. SHERMAN was against it. He thought it unnecessary. The Union can not
dismember a State without its consent.

Mr. LANGDON thought there was great weight in the argument of Mr. Luther
Martin, and that the proposition substituted by Mr. Govr. Morris would
excite a dangerous opposition to the plan.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS thought on the contrary that the small States would be
pleased with the regulation, as it holds up the idea of dismembering the
large States.

Mr. BUTLER. If new States were to be erected without the consent of the
dismembered States, nothing but confusion would ensue. Whenever taxes
should press on the people, demagogues would set up their schemes of new
States.

DOCr. JOHNSON agreed in general with the ideas of Mr. Sherman, but was
afraid that as the clause stood, Vermont would be subjected to N. York,
contrary to the faith pledged by Congress. He was of opinion that
Vermont ought to be compelled to come into the Union.

Mr. LANGDON said his objections were connected with the case of Vermont.
If they are not taken in, & remain exempt from taxes, it would prove of
great injury to N. Hampshire and the other neighbouring States

Mr. DICKINSON hoped the article would not be agreed to. He dwelt on the
impropriety of requiring the small States to secure the large ones in
their extensive claims of territory.

Mr. WILSON. When the majority of a State wish to divide they can do so.
The aim of those in opposition to the article, he perceived, was that
the Genl. Government should abet the minority, & by that means divide a
State against its own consent.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. If the forced division of States is the object of the
new System, and is to be pointed agst. one or two States, he expected,
the Gentleman [17] from these would pretty quickly leave us.

Adjourned

___________

1. The year "1787" is omitted in the transcript.

2. See ante.

3. The word "being" is here inserted in the transcript.

4. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 9; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, no -- 2."

5. The transcript uses the word "terms" in the singular.

*6. He meant the permission to import slaves. An understanding on the
two subjects of navigation and slavery, had taken place between those
parts of the Union, which explains the vote on the motion depending, as
well as the language of Genl Pinkney & others.

7. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

8. The word "and" here inserted in the transcript.

9. The word "retaliatory" is substituted in the transcript for
"retaliating."

10. The word "the" is omitted in the transcript.

11. In the transcript the vote reads: Maryland, Virginia, North
Carolina, Georgia, aye--4; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut,
New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, South Carolina, no -- 7."

12. See p. -- .

13. The word "then" is here inserted in the transcript.

14. In the transcript the vote reads: New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, no -- 5."

15. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Pennsylvania,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 6; New
Hampshire, Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, no -- 5."

16. The word "being" is here inserted in the transcript.

17. The transcript uses the word "Gentleman" in the plural.

18. The transcript uses the word "Gentleman" in the plural.


