MONDAY  SEPr 3.  1787 [1]  IN CONVENTION

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved to amend the Report concerning the respect to be
paid to Acts Records &c of one State, in other States (see Sepr. 1.) by
striking out "judgments obtained in one State shall have in another" and
to insert the word "thereof" after the word "effect"

Col: MASON favored the motion, particularly if the "effect" was to be
restrained to judgments & Judicial proceedings Mr. WILSON remarked, that
if the Legislature were not allowed to declare the effect the provision
would amount to nothing more than what now takes place among all
Independent Nations.

DOCr. JOHNSON thought the amendment as worded would authorise the Genl.
Legislature to declare the effect of Legislative acts of one State, in
another State.

Mr. RANDOLPH considered it as strengthening the general objection agst.
the plan, that its definition of the powers of the Government was so
loose as to give it opportunities of usurping all the State powers. He
was for not going farther than the Report, which enables the Legislature
to provide for the effect of Judgments.

On the amendment as moved by Mr. Govr. Morris

Mas. ay. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Md. no. Va. no. N. C. ay. S. C. ay.
Geo. no. [2]

On motion of Mr. MADISON, [3] "ought to" was [4] struck out, and "shall"
inserted; and "shall" between "Legislature" & "by general laws" struck
out, and "may" inserted, nem: con:

On the question to agree to the report as amended viz "Full faith &
credit shall be given in each State to the public acts, records &
judicial proceedings of every other State, and the Legislature may by
general laws prescribe the manner in which such acts records &
proceedings shall be proved, and the effect thereof" 5 Agreed to witht.
a count of [6] Sts.

The clause in the Report "To establish uniform laws on the subject of
Bankruptcies" being taken up.

Mr. SHERMAN observed that Bankruptcies were in some cases punishable
with death by the laws of England, & He did not chuse to grant a power
by which that might be done here.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS said this was an extensive & delicate subject. He would
agree to it because he saw no danger of abuse of the power by the
Legislature of the U. S.

On the question to agree to the clause

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. no. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay. N. C. ay.
S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [7]

Mr. PINKNEY moved to postpone the Report of the Committee of Eleven (see
Sepr. 1) in order to take up the following,

"The members of each House shall be incapable of holding any office
under the U. S. for which they or any other for their benefit, receive
any salary, fees or emoluments of any kind, and the acceptance of such
office shall vacate their seats respectively." He was strenuously
opposed to an ineligibility of members to office, and therefore wished
to restrain the proposition to a mere incompatibility. He considered the
eligibility of members of the Legislature to the honorable offices of
Government, as resembling the policy of the Romans, in making the temple
of virtue the road to the temple of fame.

On this question

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Md. no. Va. no. N. C. ay.
S. C. no. Geo. no. [8]

Mr. KING moved to insert the word "created" before the word "during" in
the Report of the Committee. This he said would exclude the members of
the first Legislature under the Constitution, as most of the offices wd.
then be created.

Mr. WILLIAMSON 2ded. the motion. He did not see why members of the
Legislature should be ineligible to vacancies happening during the term
of their election.

Mr. SHERMAN was for entirely incapacitating members of the Legislature.
He thought their eligibility to offices would give too much influence to
the Executive. He said the incapacity ought at least to be extended to
cases where salaries should be increased as well as created, during the
term of the member. He mentioned also the expedient by which the
restriction could be evaded to wit: an existing officer might be
translated to an office created, and a member of the Legislature be then
put into the office vacated.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS contended that the eligibility of members to office wd.
lessen the influence of the Executive. If they cannot be appointed
themselves, the Executive will appoint their relations & friends,
retaining the service & votes of the members for his purposes in the
Legislature. Whereas the appointment of the members deprives him of such
an advantage.

Mr. GERRY. thought the eligibility of members would have the
effect of opening batteries agst. good officers, in order to drive
them out & make way for members of the Legislature.

Mr. GORHAM was in favor of the amendment. Without it we go further than
has been done in any of the States, or indeed any other Country. The
experience of the State Governments where there was no such
ineligibility, proved that it was not necessary; on the contrary that
the eligibility was among the inducements for fit men to enter into the
Legislative service

Mr. RANDOLPH was inflexibly fixed against inviting men into the
Legislature by the prospect of being appointed to offices.

Mr. BALDWIN remarked that the example of the States was not applicable.
The Legislatures there are so numerous that an exclusion of their
members would not leave proper men for offices. The case would be
otherwise in the General Government.

Col: MASON. Instead of excluding merit, the ineligibility will keep out
corruption, by excluding office-hunters.

Mr. WILSON considered the exclusion of members of the Legislature, as
increasing the influence of the Executive as observed by Mr. Govr.
Morris at the same time that it would diminish, the general energy of
the Government. He said that the legal disqualification for office would
be odious to those who did not wish for office, but did not wish either
to be marked by so degrading a distinction.

Mr. PINKNEY. The first Legislature will be composed of the ablest men to
be found. The States will select such to put the Government into
operation. Should the Report of the Committee or even the amendment be
agreed to, The great offices, even those of the Judiciary Department
which are to continue for life, must be filled whilst those most capable
of filling them will be under a disqualification.

On the question on Mr. King's motion

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Md. no. Va. ay. N. C. ay.
S. C. no. Geo. no. [9]

The amendment being thus lost by the equal division of the States, Mr.
WILLIAMSON moved to insert the words "created or the emoluments whereof
shall have been increased" before the word "during" in the Report of the
Committee

Mr. KING 2ded. the motion, &

On the question

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Md. no. Va. ay

N. C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. divided. [10]

The last clause rendering a Seat in the Legislature & an office
incompatible was agreed to nem. con:

The Report as amended & agreed to is as follows.

"The members of each House shall be ineligible to any Civil office
under the authority of the U. States, created, or the emoluments
whereof shall have been increased during the time for which they
shall respectively be elected -- and no person holding any office
under the U. S. shall be a member of either House during his
continuance in office."

Adjourned

___________

1. The year "1787" is omitted in the transcript.

2. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, South Carolina, aye -- 6;
Maryland, Virginia, Georgia, no -- 3."

3. The expression "the words" is here inserted in the transcript.

4. The word "was" is crossed out in the transcript and "were" is written
above it.

5. The words "it was" are here inserted in the transcript.

6. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

7. In place of the vote by States the transcript reads: "Pennsylvania.
North Carolina, aye -- 2; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
Jersey, Maryland, Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8."

9. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Pennsylvania, Virginia, North Carolina, aye -- 5; Connecticut, New
Jersey, Maryland, South Carolina, aye -- 4; Georgia, divided."


