Madison's Notes
Introduction by Jon Roland

James Madison is usually credited with being the principal author of the
U.S. Constitution at the 1787 Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia,
but, while he was an active participant in the debates and in the
drafting of the document, he also managed to take the most complete set
of notes on the debates in that convention, capturing the essence, if
not the exact words, of the participants, and giving us a definitive
insight into the intent of the Framers.

His were not the only notes taken, and several of the other participants
wrote of their recollections of the Convention, including the official
recording secretary, William Jackson, but none are nearly as complete,
nor do they differ from Madison's Notes, as they are often called, in
any significant details. Jackson's notes are mere recordings of the
resolutions and votes on them, with little on the content of the
debates.

Madison's Notes were not published until about 1840, perhaps to fulfill
an early decision by the original convention forbidding disclosure of
the proceedings, to which Madison may have felt himself bound while the
other participants lived, and it was after all the rest of them had died
that he did finally publish them. The original manuscript is in somewhat
rough form, evidently the original state in which he wrote it in haste
during or shortly after the Convention itself. One must suppose he intended
an editor to clean it up and expand on his many abbreviations, but scholars
have rather chosen to present editions that reflect that original rough
state, with misspellings, inconsistent abbreviations and numberings
preserved for our edification. That can cause some pause for people when
they first try to read it, until they figure out the abbreviations, but
it is worth the effort, for one gains an important sense of the energy,
the intensity, and sometimes the frustrations of the delegates to that
historic meeting as the hammered out a truly innovative experiment in
self-government.

To the best of my knowledge this is the first online edition of the Notes.
I have had the benefit of both an "official" 1900 edition and later
editions with the footnotes of editors. I have also included Madison's
Preface to the Notes, which provides additional insight into the Convention
and its role in history.

For persons interested in resolving issues of constitutional intent and
interpretation, this is an essential reference. It makes clear what some
of the terms mean that are used in the Constitution, words that are not
commonly heard today, or whose meanings have changed.

Any errors in this edition are my responsibility, and I ask that anyone
finding such errors communicate them to me for correction.

