MONDAY  JUNE 11th.  MR. ABRAHAM BALDWIN FROM GEORGIA TOOK HIS SEAT. IN
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE

The clause concerning the rule of suffrage in the natl. Legislature
postponed on Saturday was resumed.

Mr. SHARMAN proposed that the proportion of suffrage in the 1st. branch
should be according to the respective numbers of free inhabitants; and
that in the second branch or Senate, each State should have one vote and
no more. He said as the States would remain possessed of certain
individual rights, each State ought to be able to protect itself:
otherwise a few large States will rule the rest. The House of Lords in
England he observed had certain particular rights under the
Constitution, and hence they have an equal vote with the House of
Commons that they may be able to defend their rights.

Mr. RUTLIDGE proposed that the proportion of suffrage in the 1st. branch
should be according to the quotas of contribution. The justice of this
rule he said could not be contested. Mr. BUTLER urged the same idea:
adding that money was power; and that the States ought to have weight
in the Govt. in proportion to their wealth.

Mr. KING & Mr. WILSON, [*1] in order to bring the question to a point
moved "that the right of suffrage in the first branch of the national
Legislature ought not to be according [2] the rule established in the
articles of Confederation, but according to some equitable ratio of
representation." The clause so far as it related to suffrage in the
first branch was postponed in order to consider this motion.

Mr. DICKENSON contended for the actual contributions of the States as
the rule of their representation & suffrage in the first branch. By thus
connecting the interest [3] of the States with their duty, the latter
would be sure to be performed.

Mr. KING remarked that it was uncertain what mode might be used in
levying a national revenue; but that it was probable, imposts would be
one source of it. If the actual contributions were to be the rule the
non-importing States, as Cont. & N. Jersey, wd. be in a bad situation
indeed. It might so happen that they wd. have no representation. This
situation of particular States had been always one powerful argument in
favor of the 5 Per Ct. impost.

The question being abt. to be put Docr. FRANKLIN sd. he had thrown his
ideas of the matter on a paper wch. Mr. Wilson read to the Committee
in the words following -- 

Mr. CHAIRMAN
It has given me great pleasure to observe that till this point, the
proportion of representation, came before us, our debates were carried
on with great coolness & temper. If any thing of a contrary kind, has on
this occasion appeared, I hope it will not be repeated; for we are sent
here to consult, not to contend, with each other; and declarations of a
fixed opinion, and of determined resolution, never to change it, neither
enlighten nor convince us. Positiveness and warmth on one side,
naturally beget their like on the other; and tend to create and augment
discord & division in a great concern, wherein harmony & Union are
extremely necessary to give weight to our Councils, and render them
effectual in promoting & securing the common good. 

I must own that I was originally of opinion it would be better if every
member of Congress, or our national Council, were to consider himself
rather as a representative of the whole, than as an Agent for the
interests of a particular State; in which case the proportion of members
for each State would be of less consequence, & it would not be very
material whether they voted by States or individually. But as I find
this is not to be expected, I now think the number of Representatives
should bear some proportion to the number of the Represented; and that
the decisions shd. be by the majority of members, not by the majority of
[4] States. This is objected to from an apprehension that the greater
States would then swallow up the smaller. I do not at present clearly
see what advantage the greater States could propose to themselves by
swallowing [5] the smaller, and therefore do not apprehend they would
attempt it. I recollect that in the beginning of this Century, when the
Union was proposed of the two Kingdoms, England & Scotland, the Scotch
Patriots were full of fears, that unless they had an equal number of
Representatives in Parliament, they should be ruined by the superiority
of the English. They finally agreed however that the different
proportions of importance in the Union, of the two Nations should be
attended to, whereby they were to have only forty members in the House
of Commons, and only sixteen in the House of Lords; A very great
inferiority of numbers! And yet to this day I do not recollect that any
thing has been done in the Parliament of Great Britain to the prejudice
of Scotland; and whoever looks over the lists of public officers, Civil
& military of that nation will find I believe that the North Britons
enjoy at least their full proportion of emolument.

But, Sir, in the present mode of voting by States, it is equally in the
power of the lesser States to swallow up the greater; and this is
mathematically demonstrable. Suppose for example, that 7 smaller States
had each 3 members in the House, and the 6 larger to have one with
another 6 members; and that upon a question, two members of each smaller
State should be in the affirmative and one in the Negative; they will
[6] make

    Affirmatives ............ 14 .................. Negatives .. 7
    And that all the larger States should be unanimously
    in the negative, they would make ............. Negatives .. 36
    In all .................................................... 43

It is then apparent that the 14 carry the question against the 43, and
the minority overpowers the majority, contrary to the common practice of
Assemblies in all Countries and Ages. The greater States Sir are
naturally as unwilling to have their property left in the disposition of
the smaller, as the smaller are to have theirs in the disposition of the
greater. An honorable gentleman has, to avoid this difficulty, hinted a
proposition of equalizing the States. It appears to me an equitable one,
and I should, for my own part, not be against such a measure, if it
might be found practicable. Formerly, indeed, when almost every province
had a different Constitution, some with greater others with fewer
privileges, it was of importance to the borderers when their boundaries
were contested, whether by running the division lines, they were placed
on one side or the other. At present when such differences are done
away, it is less material. The Interest of a State is made up of the
interests of its individual members. If they are not injured, the State
is not injured. Small States are more easily well & happily governed
than large ones. If therefore in such an equal division, it should be
found necessary to diminish Pennsylvania, I should not be averse to the
giving a part of it to N. Jersey, and another to Delaware. But as there
would probably be considerable difficulties in adjusting such a
division; and however equally made at first, it would be continually
varying by the augmentation of inhabitants in some States, and their [7]
fixed proportion in others; and thence frequent occasion for new
divisions, I beg leave to propose for the consideration of the Committee
another mode, which appears to me, to be as equitable, more easily
carried into practice, and more permanent in its nature.

Let the weakest State say what proportion of money or force it is able
and willing to furnish for the general purposes of the Union.

Let all the others oblige themselves to furnish each an equal
proportion.

The whole of these joint supplies to be absolutely in the disposition of
Congress.

The Congress in this case to be composed of an equal number of Delegates
from each State.

And their decisions to be by the Majority of individual members voting.

If these joint and equal supplies should on particular occasions not be
sufficient, Let Congress make requisitions on the richer and more
powerful States for farther aids, to be voluntarily afforded, leaving to
each State the right of considering the necessity and utility of the aid
desired, and of giving more or less as it should be found proper.

This mode is not new, it was formerly practised with success by the
British Government with respect to Ireland and the Colonies. We
sometimes gave even more than they expected, or thought just to accept;
and in the last war carried on while we were united, they gave us back
in 5 years a million Sterling. We should probably have continued such
voluntary contributions, whenever the occasions appeared to require them
for the common good of the Empire. It was not till they chose to force
us, and to deprive us of the merit and pleasure of voluntary
contributions that we refused & resisted. Those [8] contributions
however were to be disposed of at the pleasure of a Government in which
we had no representative. I am therefore persuaded, that they will not
be refused to one in which the Representation shall be equal My learned
Colleague [Mr. Wilson] has already mentioned that the present method of
voting by States, was submitted to originally by Congress, under a
conviction of its impropriety, inequality, and injustice. This appears
in the words of their Resolution. It is of Sepr. 6. 1774. The words are

"Resolved that in determining questions in this Congs. each Colony or
province shall have one vote: The Congs. not being possessed of or at
present able to procure materials for ascertaining the importance of
each Colony."

On the question for agreeing to Mr. Kings and Mr. Wilsons motion it
passed in the affirmative

Massts. ay. Ct. ay. N. Y. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. divd. Va.
ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [9]

It was then moved by Mr. RUTLIDGE 2ded. by Mr. BUTLER to add to the
words "equitable ratio of representation" at the end of the motion just
agreed to, the words "according to the quotas of contribution." On
motion of Mr. WILSON seconded by Mr. C. PINCKNEY, this was postponed; in
order to add, after, after the words "equitable ratio of representation"
the words following "in proportion to the whole number of white & other
free Citizens & inhabitants of every age sex & condition including those
bound to servitude for a term of years and three fifths of all other
persons not comprehended in the foregoing description, except Indians
not paying taxes, in each State," this being the rule in the Act of
Congress agreed to by eleven States, for apportioning quotas of revenue
on the States, and requiring a Census only every 5-7, or 10 years.

Mr. GERRY thought property not the rule of representation. Why then shd.
the blacks, who were property in the South, be in the rule of
representation more than the Cattle & horses of the North.

On the question, -- Mass: Con: N. Y. Pen: Maryd. Virga. N. C. S. C. &
Geo: were in the affirmative: [10] N. J. & Del: in the negative. [10]

Mr. SHARMAN moved that a question be taken whether each State shall have
one vote in the 2d. branch. Every thing he said depended on this. The
smaller States would never agree to the plan on any other principle than
an equality of suffrage in this branch. Mr. ELSWORTH seconded the
motion. On the question for allowing each State one vote in the 2d.
branch.

Massts. no. Cont. ay. N. Y. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va.
no. N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [11]

Mr. WILSON & Mr. HAMILTON moved that the right of suffrage in the 2d.
branch ought to be according to the same rule as in the 1st. branch. On
this question for making the ratio of representation the same in the 2d.
as in the 1st. branch it passed in the affirmative:

Massts. ay. Cont. no. N. Y. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. no. Va.
ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [12]

Resol: 11, [13] for guarantying Republican Govt. & territory to each
State being considered: the words "or partition" were, on motion of Mr.
MADISON, added, after the words "voluntary junction:"

Mas. N. Y. P. Va. N. C. S. C. G. ay [14] Con: N. J. Del. Md. no. [14]

Mr. READ disliked the idea of guarantying territory. It abetted the idea
of distinct States wch. would be a perpetual source of discord. There
can be no cure for this evil but in doing away States altogether and
uniting them all into one great Society. Alterations having been made in
the Resolution, making it read "that a republican Constitution & its
existing laws ought to be guaranteed to each State by the U. States" the
whole was agreed to nem. con.

Resolution 13, [15] for amending the national Constitution hereafter
without consent of [16] Natl. Legislature being considered, several
members did not see the necessity of the Resolution at all, nor the
propriety of making the consent of the Natl. Legisl. unnecessary.

Col. MASON urged the necessity of such a provision. The plan now to be
formed will certainly be defective, as the Confederation has been found
on trial to be. Amendments therefore will be necessary, and it will be
better to provide for them, in an easy, regular and Constitutional way
than to trust to chance and violence. It would be improper to require
the consent of the Natl. Legislature, because they may abuse their
power, and refuse their consent [17] on that very account. The
opportunity for such an abuse, may be the fault of the Constitution
calling for amendmt.

Mr. RANDOLPH enforced these arguments. The words, "without requiring the
consent of the Natl. Legislature" were postponed. The other provision in
the clause passed nem. con.

Resolution 14, [18] requiring oaths from the members of the State Govts.
to observe the Natl. Constitution & laws, being considered.

Mr. SHARMAN opposed it as unnecessarily intruding into the State
jurisdictions.

Mr. RANDOLPH considered it as [19] necessary to prevent that competition
between the National Constitution & laws & those of the particular
States, which had already been felt. The officers of the States are
already under oath to the States. To preserve a due impartiality they
ought to be equally bound to the Natl. Govt. The Natl. authority needs
every support we can give it. The Executive & Judiciary of the States,
notwithstanding their nominal independence on the State Legislatures are
in fact, so dependent on them, that unless they be brought under some
tie to the Natl. System, they will always lean too much to the State
systems, whenever a contest arises between the two.

Mr. GERRY did not like the clause. He thought there was as much reason
for requiring an oath of fidelity to the States, from Natl. officers, as
vice. versa.

Mr. LUTHER MARTIN moved to strike out the words requiring such an oath
from the State officers, viz "within the several States" observing that
if the new oath should be contrary to that already taken by them it
would be improper; if coincident the oaths already taken will be
sufficient.

On the question for striking out as proposed by Mr. L. Martin Massts.
no. Cont. ay. N. Y. no. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. no. N. C.
no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [20]

Question on [21] whole Resolution as proposed by Mr. Randolph;

Massts. ay. Cont. no. N. Y. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. no. Va.
ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [22]

[23] Come. rose & [23] House adjd.

___________

*1. In the printed Journal Mr. Rutlidge is named as the seconder of the
motion.

2. The word "to" is here inserted in the transcript

3. The transcript uses the word "interest" in the plural

4. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

5. The word "up" is here inserted in the transcript.

6. The word "will" is changed to "would" in the transcript.

7. The word "more" is in the Franklin manuscript.

8. The word "These" is substituted in the transcript for "Those."

9. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut,
Pennsylvania,Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye --
7; New York, New Jersey, Delaware, no -- 3; Maryland divided."

10. In place of the phrase "were in the affirmative" the transcript
substitutes "aye -- 9;" and instead of "in the negative" the expression
"no -- 2" is used.

11. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New York, New
Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, aye -- 5; Massachusetts, Pennsylvania,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 6."

12. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Pennsylvania,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye; Connecticut, New
York, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, no."

13. The words "The eleventh Resolution" are substituted in the
transcript for "Resol: II."

14. The figures "7" and "4" are inserted in the transcript after "ay"
and "no," respectively.

15. The words "The thirteenth Resolution" are substituted in the
transcript for "Resolution 13."

16. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

17. The word "assent" is substituted in the transcript for "consent."

18. The words "The fourteenth Resolution" are substituted in the
transcript for "Resolution 14."

19. The word "as" is crossed out in the transcript.

20. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New Jersey,
Delaware, Maryland, aye -- 4; Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 7."

21. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

22. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Pennsylvania,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 6;
Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, no -- 5."

23. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.


