THURSDAY.  JUNE 28th.   IN CONVENTION

Mr. L. MARTIN resumed his discourse, contending that the Genl. Govt.
ought to be formed for the States, not for individuals: that if the
States were to have votes in proportion to their numbers of people, it
would be the same thing whether their representatives were chosen by the
Legislatures or the people; the smaller States would be equally
enslaved; that if the large States have the same interest with the
smaller as was urged, there could be no danger in giving them an equal
vote; they would not injure themselves, and they could not injure the
large ones on that supposition without injuring themselves and if the
interests, were not the same, the inequality of suffrage wd. be
dangerous to the smaller States: that it will be in vain to propose any
plan offensive to the rulers of the States, whose influence over the
people will certainly prevent their adopting it: that the large States
were weak at present in proportion to their extent: & could only be made
formidable to the small ones, by the weight of their votes; that in case
a dissolution of the Union should take place, the small States would
have nothing to fear from their power; that if in such a case the three
great States should league themselves together, the other ten could do
so too: & that he had rather see partial confederacies take place, than
the plan on the table.

This was the substance of the residue of his discourse which was
delivered with much diffuseness & considerable vehemence.

Mr. LANSING & Mr. DAYTON moved to strike out "not." so that the 7 art:
might read that the rights [1] of suffrage in the 1st. branch ought to
be according to the rule established by the Confederation."

Mr. DAYTON expressed great anxiety that the question might not be put
till tomorrow; Governr. Livingston being kept away by indisposition, and
the representation of N. Jersey thereby suspended.

Mr. WILLIAMSON. thought that if any political truth could be grounded on
mathematical demonstration, it was that if the States were equally
sovereign now, and parted with equal proportions of sovereignty, that
they would remain equally sovereign. He could not comprehend how the
smaller States would be injured in the case, and wished some Gentleman
would vouchsafe a solution of it. He observed that the small States, if
they had a plurality of votes would have an interest in throwing the
burdens off their own shoulders on those of the large ones. He begged
that the expected addition of new States from the Westward might be kept
in [2] view. They would be small States, they would be poor States, they
would be unable to pay in proportion to their numbers; their distance
from market rendering the produce of their labour less valuable; they
would consequently be tempted to combine for the purpose of laying
burdens on commerce & consumption which would fall with greatest [3]
weight on the old States.

Mr. MADISON, Sd. he was much disposed to concur in any expedient not
inconsistent with fundamental principles, that could remove the
difficulty concerning the rule of representation. But he could neither
be convinced that the rule contended for was just, nor [4] necessary for
the safety of the small States agst. the large States. That it was not
just, had been conceded by Mr. Breerly & Mr. Patterson themselves. The
expedient proposed by them was a new partition of the territory of the
U. States. The fallacy of the reasoning drawn from the equality of
Sovereign States in the formation of compacts, lay in confounding mere
Treaties, in which were specified certain duties to which the parties
were to be bound, and certain rules by which their subjects were to be
reciprocally governed in their intercourse, with a compact by which an
authority was created paramount to the parties, & making laws for the
government of them. If France, England & Spain were to enter into a
Treaty for the regulation of commerce &c with the Prince of Monacho & 4
or 5 other of the smallest sovereigns of Europe, they would not hesitate
to treat as equals, and to make the regulations perfectly reciprocal.
Wd. the case be the same, if a Council were to be formed of deputies
from each with authority and discretion, to raise money, levy troops,
determine the value of coin &c? Would 30 or 40. million [5] of people
submit their fortunes into the hands, of a few thousands? If they did it
would only prove that they expected more from the terror of their
superior force, than they feared from the selfishness of their feeble
associates. Why are Counties of the same states represented in
proportion to their numbers? Is it because the representatives are
chosen by the people themselves? So will be the representatives in the
Nationl. Legislature. Is it because, the larger have more at stake than
the smaller? The case will be the same with the larger & smaller States.
Is it because the laws are to operate immediately on their persons &
properties? The same is the case in some degree as the articles of
confederation stand; the same will be the case in a far greater degree
under the plan proposed to be substituted. In the cases of captures, of
piracies, and of offences in a federal army; the property & persons of
individuals depend on the laws of Congs. By the plan proposed a compleat
power of taxation, the highest prerogative of supremacy is proposed to
be vested in the National Govt. Many other powers are added which
assimilate it to the Govt. of individual States. The negative proposed
on the State laws, will make it an essential branch of the State
Legislatures & of course will require that it should be exercised by a
body established on like principles with the other [6] branches of those
Legislatures. -- That it is not necessary to secure the small States
agst. the large ones he conceived to be equally obvious: Was a
combination of the large ones dreaded? this must arise either from some
interest common to Va. Masts. & Pa. & distinguishing them from the other
States or from the mere circumstance of similarity of size. Did any such
common interest exist? In point of situation they could not have been
more effectually separated from each other by the most jealous citizen
of the most jealous State. In point of manners, Religion, and the other
circumstances which sometimes beget affection between different
communities, they were not more assimilated than the other States. -- In
point of the staple productions they were as dissimilar as any three
other States in the Union. The Staple of Masts. was fish, of Pa. flower,
of Va. Tobo. Was a combination to be apprehended from the mere
circumstance of equality of size? Experience suggested no such danger.
The journals of Congs. did not present any peculiar association of these
States in the votes recorded. It had never been seen that different
Counties in the same State, conformable in extent, but disagreeing in
other circumstances, betrayed a propensity to such combinations.
Experience rather taught a contrary lesson. Among individuals of
superior eminence & weight in Society, rivalships were much more
frequent than coalitions. Among independent nations, pre-eminent over
their neighbours, the same remark was verified. Carthage & Rome tore one
another to pieces instead of uniting their forces to devour the weaker
nations of the Earth. The Houses of Austria & France were hostile as
long as they remained the greatest powers of Europe. England & France
have succeeded to the pre-eminence & to the enmity. To this principle we
owe perhaps our liberty. A coalition between those powers would have
been fatal to us. Among the principal members of antient & Modern
confederacies, we find the same effect from the same cause. The
contintions, not the Coalitions of Sparta, Athens & Thebes, proved fatal
to the smaller members of the Amphyctionic Confederacy. The contentions,
not the combinations of Prussia & Austria, have distracted & oppressed
the Germanic [7] empire. Were the large States formidable singly to
their smaller neighbours? On this supposition the latter ought to wish
for such a general Govt. as will operate with equal energy on the former
as on themselves. The more lax the band, the more liberty the larger
will have to avail themselves of their superior force. Here again
Experience was an instructive monitor. What is ye situation of the weak
compared with the strong in those stages of civilization in which the
violence of individuals is least controuled by an efficient Government?
The Heroic period of Antient Greece the feudal licentiousness of the
middle ages of Europe, the existing condition of the American Savages,
answer this question. What is the situation of the minor sovereigns in
the great society of independent nations, in which the more powerful are
under no controul but the nominal authority of the law of Nations? Is
not the danger to the former exactly in proportion to their weakness.
But there are cases still more in point. What was the condition of the
weaker members of the Amphyctionic Confederacy. Plutarch [ [8] life of
Themistocles] will inform us that it happened but too often that the
strongest cities corrupted & awed the weaker, and that Judgment went in
favor of the more powerful party. What is the condition of the lesser
states in the German Confederacy? We all know that they are exceedingly
trampled upon; and that they owe their safety as far as they enjoy it,
partly to their enlisting themselves, under the rival banners of the
pre-eminent members, partly to alliances with neighbouring Princes which
the Constitution of the Empire does not prohibit. What is the state of
things in the lax system of the Dutch Confederacy? Holland contains
about 1/2 the people, supplies about 1/2 of [9] the money, and by her
influence, silently & indirectly governs the whole republic. In a word;
the two extremes before us are a perfect separation & a perfect
incorporation, of the 13 States. In the first case they would be
independent nations subject to no law, but the law of nations. In the
last, they would be mere counties of one entire republic, subject to one
common law. In the first case the smaller States would have every thing
to fear from the larger. In the last they would have nothing to fear.
The true policy of the small States therefore lies in promoting those
principles & that form of Govt. which will most approximate the States
to the condition of counties. Another consideration may be added. If the
Genl. Govt. be feeble, the large States distrusting its continuance, and
foreseeing that their importance & security may depend on their own size
& strength, will never submit to a partition. Give to the Genl. Govt.
sufficient energy & permanency, & you remove the objection. Gradual
partitions of the large, & junctions of the small States will be
facilitated, and time may effect that equalization, which is wished for
by the small States now, but can never be accomplished at once.

Mr. WILSON. The leading argument of those who contend for equality of
votes among the States is that the States as such being equal, and being
represented not as districts of individuals, but in their political &
corporate capacities, are entitled to an equality of suffrage. According
to this mode of reasoning the representation of the boroughs in Engld
which has been allowed on all hands to be the rotten part of the
Constitution, is perfectly right & proper. They are like the States
represented in their corporate capacity like the States therefore they
are entitled to equal voices, old Sarum to as many as London. And
instead of the injury supposed hitherto to be done to London, the true
ground of complaint lies with old Sarum: for London instead of two which
is her proper share, sends four representatives to Parliament.

Mr. SHERMAN. The question is not what rights naturally belong to men
[10] ; but how they may be most equally & effectually guarded in
Society. And if some give up more than others in order to attain [11]
this end, there can be no room for complaint. To do otherwise, to
require an equal concession from all, if it would create danger to the
rights of some, would be sacrificing the end to the means. The rich man
who enters into Society along with the poor man, gives up more than the
poor man, yet with an equal vote he is equally safe. Were he to have
more votes than the poor man in proportion to his superior stake, the
rights of the poor man would immediately cease to be secure. This
consideration prevailed when the articles of Confederation were formed.

The determination of the question from [12] striking out the word "not"
was put off till tomorrow at the request of the Deputies of N. York. See
opposite page & insert the Speech of Doctr. F in this place. [13]

Mr. President The small progress we have made after 4 or five weeks
close attendance & continual reasonings with each other -- our different
sentiments on almost every question, several of the last producing as
many noes as ays, is methinks a melancholy proof of the imperfection of
the Human Understanding. We indeed seem to feel our own want of
political wisdom, since we have been running about in search of it. We
have gone back to ancient history for models of Government, and examined
the different forms of those Republics which having been formed with the
seeds of their own dissolution now no longer exist. And we have viewed
Modern States all round Europe, but find none of their Constitutions
suitable to our circumstances.

In this situation of this Assembly, groping as it were in the dark to
find political truth, and scarce able to distinguish it when presented
to us, how has it happened, Sir, that we have not hitherto once thought
of humbly applying to the Father of lights to illuminate our
understandings? In the beginning of the Contest with G. Britain, when we
were sensible of danger we had daily prayer in this room for the divine
protection. -- Our prayers, Sir, were heard, & they were graciously
answered. All of us who were engaged in the struggle must have observed
frequent instances of a superintending providence in our favor. To that
kind providence we owe this happy opportunity of consulting in peace on
the means of establishing our future national felicity. And have we now
forgotten that powerful friend? or do we imagine that we no longer need
his assistance? I have lived, Sir, a long time, and the longer I live,
the more convincing proofs I see of this truth -- that God Governs in
the affairs of men. And if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without
his notice, is it probable that an empire can rise without his aid? We
have been assured, Sir, in the sacred writings, that "except the Lord
build the House they labour in vain that build it." I firmly believe
this; and I also believe that without his concurring aid we shall
succeed in this political building no better, than the Builders of
Babel: We shall be divided by our little partial local interests; our
projects will be confounded, and we ourselves shall become a reproach
and bye word down to future ages. And what is worse, mankind may
hereafter from this unfortunate instance, despair of establishing
Governments by Human wisdom and leave it to chance, war and conquest.

I therefore beg leave to move -- that henceforth prayers imploring the
assistance of Heaven, and its blessings on our deliberations, be held in
this Assembly every morning before we proceed to business, and that one
or more of the Clergy of this City be requested to officiate in that
Service -- 

Mr. SHERMAN seconded the motion.

Mr. HAMILTON & several others expressed their apprehensions that however
proper such a resolution might have been at the beginning of the
convention, it might at this late day, I. [14] bring on it some
disagreeable animadversions. & 2. [15] lead the public to believe that
the embarrassments and dissensions within the Convention, had suggested
this measure. It was answered by Docr. F. Mr. SHERMAN & others, that the
past omission of a duty could not justify a further omission -- that the
rejection of such a proposition would expose the Convention to more
unpleasant animadversions than the adoption of it: and that the alarm
out of doors that might be excited for the state of things within, would
at least be as likely to do good as ill.

Mr. WILLIAMSON, observed that the true cause of the omission could not
be mistaken. The Convention had no funds.

Mr. RANDOLPH proposed in order to give a favorable aspect to ye.
measure, that a sermon be preached at the request of the convention on
[16] 4th of July, the anniversary of Independence; & thenceforward
prayers be used [17] in ye. Convention every morning. Dr. FRANKn. 2ded.
this motion After several unsuccessful attempts for silently postponing
the [18] matter by adjourng. the adjournment was at length carried,
without any vote on the motion.

___________

1. The transcript uses the word "rights" in the singular.

2. The words "taken into" are substituted in the transcript for "kept
in."

3. The word "greater" is substituted in the transcript for "greatest."

4. The words "that it was" are here inserted in the transcript.

5. The transcript uses the word "million" in the plural.

6. The word "other" is omitted in the transcript.

7. The word "German" is substituted in the transcript for "Germanic."

8. The word "see" is here inserted in the transcript.

9. The word "of" is omitted in the transcript.

10. The word "men" is used in the singular in the transcript.

11. The word "obtain" is substituted in the transcript for "attain."

12. The word "from" is changed to "for" in the transcript.

13. Madison's direction is omitted in the transcript and the words
"Doctor Franklin" are inserted.

14. The figure "1" is changed to "in the first place" in the transcript.

15. The figure "2" is changed to "in the second place" in the
transcript.

16. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

17. The words "&c to be read" are substituted in the transcript for "be
used."

18. The word "this" is substituted in the transcript for "the."


