THURSDAY  AUGst 9.   IN CONVENTION

Art: IV. Sect. 6. [1, 2] Mr. RANDOLPH expressed his dissatisfaction at
the disagreement yesterday to Sect. 5. concerning money bills, as
endangering the success of the plan, and extremely objectionable in
itself; and gave notice that he should move for a reconsideration of the
vote.

Mr. WILLIAMSON said he had formed a like intention.

Mr. WILSON, gave notice that he shd. move to reconsider the vote,
requiring seven instead of three years of Citizenship as a qualification
of candidates for the House of Representatives.

Art. IV. Sect. 6 & 7. [1, 3] Agreed to nem. con.

Art. V. Sect I. [4, 5] taken up.

Mr. WILSON objected to vacancies in the Senate being supplied by the
Executives of the States. It was unnecessary as the Legislatures will
meet so frequently. It removes the appointment too far from the people;
the Executives in most of the States being elected by the Legislatures.
As he had always thought the appointment of the Executives 6 by the
Legislative department wrong: so it was still more so that the Executive
should elect into the Legislative department.

Mr. RANDOLPH thought it necessary in order to prevent inconvenient
chasms in the Senate. In some States the Legislatures meet but once a
year. As the Senate will have more power & consist of a smaller number
than the other House, vacancies there will be of more consequence. The
Executives might be safely trusted he thought with the appointment for
so short a time.

Mr. ELSEWORTH. It is only said that the Executive may supply the [7]
vacancies. When the Legislative meeting happens to be near, the power
will not be exerted. As there will be but two members from a State
vacancies may be of great moment.

Mr. WILLIAMSON. Senators may resign or not accept. This provision is
therefore absolutely necessary.

On the question for striking out "vacancies shall be supplied by [8]
Executives

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Md. divd. Va. no. N. C. no.
S. C. no. Geo. no. [9]

Mr. WILLIAMSON moved to insert after "vacancies shall be supplied by the
Executives," the following [10] words "unless other provision shall be
made by the Legislature" [of the State].

Mr. ELSEWORTH. He was willing to trust the Legislature, or the Executive
of a State, but not to give the former a discretion to refer
appointments for the Senate to whom they pleased.

[11] Question on Mr. Williamson's motion N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N.
J. no. Pa. no. Md. ay. Va. no. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [12]

Mr. MADISON in order to prevent doubts whether resignations, could be
made by Senators, or whether they could refuse to accept, moved to
strike out the words after "vacancies," & insert the words "happening by
refusals to accept, resignations or otherwise may be supplied by the
Legislature of the State in the representation of which such vacancies
shall happen, or by the Executive thereof until the next meeting of the
Legislature"

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS this is absolutely necessary, otherwise, as members
chosen into the Senate are disqualified from being appointed to any
office by Sect. 9. of this art: it will be in the power of a Legislature
by appointing a man a Senator agst. his consent to deprive the U. S. of
his services.

The motion of Mr. Madison was agreed to nem. con.

Mr. RANDOLPH called for division of the Section, so as to leave a
distinct question on the last words "each member shall have one vote."
He wished this last sentence to be postponed until the reconsideration
should have taken place on Sect. 5. Art. IV. concerning money bills. If
that section should not be reinstated his plan would be to vary the
representation in the Senate.

Mr. STRONG concurred in Mr. Randolphs ideas on this point.

Mr. READ did not consider the section as to money bills of any advantage
to the larger States and had voted for striking it out as being viewed
in the same light by the larger States. If it was considered by them as
of any value, and as a condition of the equality of votes in the Senate,
he had no objection to its being re-instated.

Mr. WILSON -- Mr. ELSEWORTH & Mr. MADISON urged that it was of no
advantage to the larger States, and that it might be a dangerous source
of contention between the two Houses. All the principal powers of the
Natl. Legislature had some relation to money.

DOCr. FRANKLIN, considered the two clauses, the originating of money
bills, and the equality of votes in the Senate, as essentially connected
by the compromise which had been agreed to.

Col. MASON said this was not the time for discussing this point. When
the originating of money bills shall be reconsidered, he thought it
could be demonstrated that it was of essential importance to restrain
the right to the House of Representatives the immediate choice of the
people.

Mr. WILLIAMSON. The State of N. C. had agreed to an equality in the
Senate, merely in consideration that money bills should be confined to
the other House: and he was surprised to see the Smaller States
forsaking the condition on which they had received their equality.

[13] Question on the Section I. [14] down to the last sentence

N. H. ay. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. no [15] Del. ay. Md. ay. Virga
ay N. C. no. S. C. divd. Geo. ay. [16]

Mr. RANDOLPH moved that the last sentence "each member shall have one
vote." be postponed

It was observed that this could not be necessary; as in case the section
as to originating [17] bills should not be reinstated, and a revision of
the Constitution should ensue, it wd. still be proper that the members
should vote per Capita. A postponement of the preceding sentence
allowing to each State 2 members wd. have been more proper

Mr. MASON, did not mean to propose a change of this mode of voting per
capita in any event. But as there might be other modes proposed, he saw
no impropriety in postponing the sentence. Each State may have two
members, and yet may have unequal votes. He said that unless the
exclusive [18] orginating of money bills should be restored to the House
of Representatives, he should, not from obstinacy, but duty and
conscience, oppose throughout the equality of Representation in the
Senate.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. Such declarations were he supposed, addressed to the
smaller States in order to alarm them for their equality in the Senate,
and induce them agst. their judgments, to concur in restoring the
section concerning money bills. He would declare in his turn that as he
saw no prospect of amending the Constitution of the Senate & considered
the section relating to money bills as intrinsically bad, he would
adhere to the section establishing the equality at all events.

Mr. WILSON. It seems to have been supposed by some that the section
concerning money bills is desirable to the large States. The fact was
that two of those States [Pa. & Va.] had uniformly voted agst. it
without reference to any other part of the system.

Mr. RANDOLPH, urged as Col. Mason had done that the sentence under
consideration was connected with that relating to Money bills, and might
possibly be affected by the result of the motion for reconsidering the
latter. That the postponement was therefore not improper.

[19] Question for postponing "each member shall have one vote."

N. H. divd. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. ay.
N. C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. no. [20]

The words were then agreed to as part of the section.

Mr. RANDOLPH then gave notice that he should move to reconsider this
whole Sect: 1. Art. V. as connected with the 5. Sect. art. IV. as to
which he had already given such notice.

Art. V. Sect. 2d. [21, 22] taken up.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved to insert after the words "immediately after,"
the following "they shall be assembled in consequence of -- " which was
agreed to nem. con. as was then the whole Sect. 2. [23]

Art: V. Sect. 3. [21, 24] taken up.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved to insert 14 instead of 4 years citizenship as a
qualification for Senators: urging the danger of admitting strangers
into our public Councils. Mr. PINKNEY 2 ds him

Mr. ELSEWORTH. was opposed to the motion as discouraging meritorious
aliens from emigrating to this Country.

Mr. PINKNEY. As the Senate is to have the power of making treaties &
managing our foreign affairs, there is peculiar danger and impropriety
in opening its door to those who have foreign attachments. He quoted the
jealousy of the Athenians on this subject who made it death for any
stranger to intrude his voice into their Legislative proceedings.

Col. MASON highly approved of the policy of the motion. Were it not that
many not natives of this Country had acquired great merit [25] during
the revolution, he should be for restraining the eligibility into the
Senate, to natives.

Mr. MADISON, was not averse to some restrictions on this subject; but
could never agree to the proposed amendment. He thought any restriction
however in the Constitution unnecessary, and improper. unnecessary;
because the Natl. Legislre. is to have the right of regulating
naturalization, and can by virtue thereof fix different periods of
residence as conditions of enjoying different privileges of Citizenship:
Improper; because it will give a tincture of illiberality to the
Constitution: because it will put it out of the power of the Nat1
Legislature even by special acts of naturalization to confer the full
rank of Citizens on meritorious strangers & because it will discourage
the most desireable class of people from emigrating to the U. S. Should
the proposed Constitution have the intended effect of giving stability &
reputation to our Govts. great numbers of respectable Europeans: men who
love liberty and wish to partake its blessings, will be ready to
transfer their fortunes hither. All such would feel the mortification of
being marked with suspicious incapacitations though they sd. not covet
the public honors He was not apprehensive that any dangerous number of
strangers would be appointed by the State Legislatures, if they were
left at liberty to do so: nor that foreign powers would made use of
strangers as instruments for their purposes. Their bribes would be
expended on men whose circumstances would rather stifle than excite
jealousy & watchfulness in the public.

Mr. BUTLER was decidely opposed to the admission of foreigners without a
long residence in the Country. They bring with them, not only
attachments to other Countries; but ideas of Govt. so distinct from ours
that in every point of view they are dangerous. He acknowledged that if
he himself had been called into public life within a short time after
his coming to America, his foreign habits opinions & attachments would
have rendered him an improper agent in public affairs. He mentioned the
great strictness observed in Great Britain on this subject.

DOCr. FRANKLIN was not agst. a reasonable time, but should be very sorry
to see any thing like illiberality inserted in the Constitution. The
people in Europe are friendly to this Country. Even in the Country with
which we have been lately at war, we have now & had during the war, a
great many friends not only among the people at large but in both houses
of Parliament. In every other Country in Europe all the people are our
friends. We found in the course of the Revolution that many strangers
served us faithfully -- and that many natives took part agst. their
Country. When foreigners after looking about for some other Country in
which they can obtain more happiness, give a preference to ours it is a
proof of attachment which ought to excite our confidence & affection.

Mr. RANDOLPH did not know but it might be problematical whether
emigrations to this Country were on the whole useful or not: but be
could never agree to the motion for disabling them for 14 years to
participate in the public honours. He reminded the Convention of the
language held by our patriots during the Revolution, and the principles
laid down in all our American Constitutions. Many foreigners may have
fixed their fortunes among us under the faith of these invitations. All
persons under this description, with all others who would be affected by
such a regulation, would enlist themselves under the banners of
hostility to the proposed System. He would go as far as seven years, but
no farther.

Mr. WILSON said he rose with feelings which were perhaps peculiar;
mentioning the circumstance of his not being a native, and the
possibility, if the ideas of some gentlemen should be pursued, of his
being incapacitated from holding a place under the very Constitution,
which he had shared in the trust of making. He remarked the illiberal
complexion which the motion would give to the System, & the effect which
a good system would have in inviting meritorious foreigners among us,
and the discouragement & mortification they must feel from the degrading
discrimination, now proposed. He had himself experienced this
mortification. On his removal into Maryland, he found himself, from
defect of residence, under certain legal incapacities which never ceased
to produce chagrin, though he assuredly did not desire & would not have
accepted the offices to which they related. To be appointed to a place
may be matter of indifference. To be incapable of being appointed, is a
circumstance grating and mortifying.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. The lesson we are taught is that we should be governed
as much by our reason, and as little by our feelings as possible. What
is the language of Reason on this subject? That we should not be polite
at the expence of prudence. There was a moderation in all things. It is
said that some tribes of Indians, carried their hospitality so far as to
offer to strangers their wives & daughters. Was this a proper model for
us? He would admit them to his house, he would invite them to his table,
would provide for them confortable lodgings; but would not carry the
complaisance so far as, to bed them with his wife. He would let them
worship at the same altar, but did not choose to make Priests of them.
He ran over the privileges which emigrants would enjoy among us, though
they should be deprived of that of being eligible to the great offices
of Government; observing that they exceeded the privileges allowed to
foreigners in any part of the world; and that as every Society from a
great nation down to a club had the right of declaring the conditions on
which new members should be admitted, there could be no room for
complaint. As to those philosophical gentlemen, those Citizens of the
World as they call themselves, He owned he did not wish to see any of
them in our public Councils. He would not trust them. The men who can
shake off their attachments to their own Country can never love any
other. These attachments are the wholesome prejudices which uphold all
Governments, Admit a Frenchman into your Senate, and he will study to
increase the commerce of France: an Englishman, [26] he will feel an
equal biass in favor of that of England. It has been said that The
Legislatures will not chuse foreigners, at least improper ones. There
was no knowing what Legislatures would do. Some appointments made by
them, proved that every thing ought to be apprehended from the cabals
practised on such occasions. He mentioned the case of a foreigner who
left this State in disgrace, and worked himself into an appointment from
another to Congress.

[27] Question on the motion of Mr. GOVr. MORRIS to insert 14 in place of
4 years

N. H. ay. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no. N.
C. no. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [28]

On 13 years, moved Mr. Govr. Morris [29]

N. H. ay. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no. N.
C. no. S. C. ay. Geo. ay.

On 10 years moved by Genl. PINKNEY [30]

N. H. ay. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no. N.
C. no. S. C. ay.

Geo. ay.

Dr. FRANKLIN reminded the Convention that it did not follow from an
omission to insert the restriction in the Constitution that the persons
in question wd. be actually chosen into the Legislature.

Mr. RUTLIDGE. 7 years of Citizenship have been required for the House of
Representatives. Surely a longer term is requisite for the Senate, which
will have more power.

Mr. WILLIAMSON. It is more necessary to guard the Senate in this case
than the other House. Bribery & cabal can be more easily practised in
the choice of the Senate which is to be made by the Legislatures
composed of a few men, than of the House of Represents. who will be
chosen by the people.

Mr. RANDOLPH will agree to 9 years with the expectation that it will be
reduced to seven if Mr. Wilson's motion to reconsider the vote fixing 7
years for the House of Representatives should produce a reduction of
that period.

On a [31] question for 9 years.

N. H. ay. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. no. Va. ay. N.
C. divd. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [32]

The term "Resident" was struck out, & "inhabitant" inserted nem. con.

Art. V Sect. 3, as amended [33] agreed to nem. con.

Sect. 4. [34] agreed to nem. con. [35]

Art. VI. sect. I. [34, 36] taken up.

Mr. MADISON & Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved to strike out "each House" & to
insert "the House of Representatives"; the right of the Legislatures to
regulate the times & places &c in the election of Senators being
involved in the right of appointing them, which was disagreed to.

[37] Division of the question being called, [38] it was taken on the
first part down to "but their provisions concerning &c"

The first part was agreed to nem. con.

Mr. PINKNEY & Mr. RUTLIDGE moved to strike out the remaining part viz
but their provisions concerning them may at any time be altered by the
Legislature of the United States." The States they contended could &
must be relied on in such cases.

Mr. GHORUM. It would be as improper [39] take this power from the Natl
Legislature, as to Restrain the British Parliament from regulating the
circumstances of elections, leaving this business to the Counties
themselves -- 

Mr. MADISON. The necessity of a Genl. govt. supposes that the State
Legislatures will sometimes fail or refuse to consult the common
interest at the expence of their local conveniency [40] or prejudices.
The policy of referring the appointment of the House of Representatives
to the people and not to the Legislatures of the States, supposes that
the result will be somewhat influenced by the mode. This view of the
question seems to decide that the Legislatures of the States ought not
to have the uncontrouled right of regulating the times places & manner
of holding elections. These were words of great latitude. It was
impossible to foresee all the abuses that might be made of the
discretionary power. Whether the electors should vote by ballot or viva
voce, should assemble at this place or that place; should be divided
into districts or all meet at one place, shd. all vote for all the
representatives; or all in a district vote for a number allotted to the
district; these & many other points would depend on the Legislatures,
and might materially affect the appointments. Whenever the State
Legislatures had a favorite measure to carry, they would take care so to
mould their regulations as to favor the candidates they wished to
succeed. Besides, the inequality of the Representation in the
Legislatures of particular States, would produce a like inequality in
their representation in the Natl. Legislature, as it was presumable that
the Counties having the power in the former case would secure it to
themselves in the latter. What danger could there be in giving a
controuling power to the Natl. Legislature? Of whom was it to consist?
1. [41] of a Senate to be chosen by the State Legislatures. If the
latter therefore could be trusted, their representatives could not be
dangerous. 2. [41] of Representatives elected by the same people who
elect the State Legislatures; surely then if confidence is due to the
latter, it must be due to the former. It seemed as improper in
principle, though it might be less inconvenient in practice, to give to
the State Legislatures this great authority over the election of the
Representatives of the people in the Genl. Legislature, as it would be
to give to the latter a like power over the election of their
Representatives in the State Legislatures.

Mr. KING. If this power be not given to the Natl. Legislature, their
right of judging of the returns of their members may be frustrated. No
probability has been suggested of its being abused by them. Altho this
scheme of erecting the Genl. Govt. on the authority of the State
Legislatures has been fatal to the federal establishment, it would seem
as if many gentlemen, still foster the dangerous idea.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS -- observed that the States might make false returns
and then make no provisions for new elections Mr. SHERMAN did not know
but it might be best to retain the clause, though he had himself
sufficient confidence in the State Legislatures. The motion of Mr. P.
and Mr. R. did not prevail -- The word "respectively" was inserted after
the word "State" On the motion of Mr. Read the word "their" was struck
out, & "regulations in such cases" inserted in place of "provisions
concerning them." the clause then reading -- " but regulations in each
of the foregoing cases may at any time, be made or altered by the
Legislature of the U.S" This was meant to give the Natl. Legislature a
power not only to alter the provisions of the States, but to make
regulations in case the States should fail or refuse altogether.

Art. VI. Sect. 1. as thus amended was agreed to nem. con.

Adjourned.

___________

1. See ante.

2. The words "was taken up" are here inserted in the transcript.

3. The word "were" is here inserted in the transcript.

4. See ante.

5. The words "was then" are here inserted in the transcript.

6. The word "Executives" is in the singular in the transcript.

7. The word "the" is omitted in the transcript.

8. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

9. In the transcript the vote reads: "Pennsylvania, aye -- 1; New
Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8; Maryland, divided."

10. The word "following" is omitted in the transcript.

11. The words "On the" are here inserted in the transcript.

12. In the transcript the vote reads: "Maryland, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 4; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut,
New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Virginia, no -- 6."

13. The words "On the" are here inserted in the transcript.

14. The words "first section" are substituted for "Section 1" in the
transcript.

15. In the printed Journal Pensylvania. ay.

16. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Connecticut, New
Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, Georgia, aye -- 7; Massachusetts,
Pennsylvania, [15] North Carolina, no -- 3; South Carolina, divided."

17. The word "money" is here inserted in the transcript.

18. The words "right of" are here inserted in the transcript.

19. The words "On the" are here inserted in the transcript.

20. In the transcript the vote reads: Virginia, North Carolina, aye --
2; Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware,
Maryland, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8; New Hampshire, divided."

21. See p. -- .

22. The words "was then" are here inserted in the transcript.

23. The figure "2" is omitted in the transcript.

24. The words "was then" are here inserted in the transcript.

25. The word "credit" is substituted in the transcript for "merit."

26. The word "and" is here inserted in the transcript.

27. The words "On the" are here inserted in the transcript.

28. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, New Jersey, South
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 4; Massachusetts, Connecticut, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, no -- 7."

29. In the transcript this sentence reads as follows: "On the question
for thirteen years, moved by Mr. Gouverneur Morris, it was negatived, as
above." The vote by States is omitted.

30. The phrase "the votes were the same," is here inserted in the
transcript, and the vote by States is omitted.

31. In the transcript the word "a" is stricken out and "the" is written
above it.

32. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, New Jersey,
Delaware, Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 6; Massachusetts,
Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Maryland, no -- 4; North Carolina, devided."

33. The words "was then" are here inserted in the transcript

34. See ante.

35. In the transcript this sentence reads as follows: "Article 5, Sect.
4 was agreed to nem. con."

36. The words "was then" are here inserted in the transcript.

37. The words "A" is here inserted in the transcript.

38. The word "for" is here inserted in the transcript.

39. The word "to" is here inserted in the transcript.

40. The word "conveniency" is changed to "convenience" in the transcript.

41. The figures "1" and "2" are changed to "First" and "Secondly" in the
transcript.


