THURSDAY  SEPR 13.  1787 [1]  IN CONVENTION

Col: MASON. He had moved without success for a power to make sumptuary
regulations. He had not yet lost sight of his object. After descanting
on the extravagance of our manners, the excessive consumption of foreign
superfluities, and the necessity of restricting it, as well with
oeconomical as requblican views, he moved that a Committee be appointed
to report articles of association for encouraging by the advice the
influence and the example of the members of the Convention, oeconomy
frugality and american manufactures.

DOCr. JOHNSON 2ded. the motion which was without debate agreed to; nem:
con: and a Committee appointed, consisting of Col: Mason, Docr.
Franklin, Mr. Dickenson, Docr. Johnson, and Mr. Livingston. [*2]

Col: MASON renewed his proposition of yesterday on the subject of
inspection laws, with an additional clause giving to Congress a controul
over them in case of abuse -- as follows,

"Provided that no State shall be restrained from imposing the usual
duties on produce exported from such State, for the sole purpose of
defraying the charges of inspecting, packing, storing, and indemnifying
the losses on such produce, while in the custody of public officers: but
all such regulations shall in case of abuse, be subject to the revision
and controul of Congress."

There was no debate & on the question

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay. N. C. ay. S.
C. no. Geo. ay. [4]

The Report from the Committee of stile & arrangement, was taken up, in
order to be compared with the articles of the plan as agreed to by the
House & referred to the Committee, and to receive the final corrections
and sanction of the Convention.

Art. 1. sect. 2. On motion of Mr. RANDOLPH the word "servitude" was
struck out, and "service" [*5] unanimously inserted, the former being
thought to express the condition of slaves, & the latter the obligations
of free persons.

Mr. DICKENSON & Mr. WILSON moved to strike out "and direct taxes," from
sect. 2. art. 1. as improperly placed in a clause relating merely to the
Constitution of the House of Representatives.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. The insertion here was in consequence of what had
passed on this point; in order to exclude the appearance of counting the
negroes in the Representation. The including of them may now be referred
to the object of direct taxes, and incidentally only to that of
Representation.

On the motion to strike out "and direct taxes" from this place

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. no. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [6]

Art. 1. sect. 7 " -- if any bill shall not be returned by the president
within ten days (Sundays excepted) after it shall have been presented to
him &c"

Mr. MADISON, moved to insert between "after" and "it" in Sect. 7. Art. 1
the words "the day on which," in order to prevent a question whether the
day on which the bill be presented, ought to be counted or not as one of
the ten days.

Mr. RANDOLPH 2ded. the motion.

Mr. GOVERNUr. MORRIS. The amendment is unnecessary. The law knows no
fractions of days.

A number of members being very impatient & calling for the question

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay. N.
C. no S. C. no. Geo. no -- [7]

DOCr. JOHNSON made a further report from the Committee of stile &c of
the following resolutions to be substituted for 22 & 23 articles

"Resolved that the preceding Constitution be laid before the U. States
in Congress assembled, and that it is the opinion of this Convention,
that it should afterwards be submitted to a Convention of Delegates
chosen in each State by the people thereof, under the recommendation of
its Legislature, for their assent & ratification; & that each Convention
assenting & ratifying the same should give notice thereof to the U.S. in
Congs. assembled.

"Resolved that it is the opinion of this Convention that as soon as the
Conventions of nine States, shall have ratified this Constitution, the
U.S. in Congs. assembled should fix a day on which electors should be
appointed by the States which shall have ratified the same; and a day on
which the Electors should assemble to vote for the President; and the
time and place for commencing proceedings under this Constitution --
That after such publication the Electors should be appointed, and the
Senators and Representatives elected: That the Electors should meet on
the day fixed for the election of the President, and should transmit
their votes certified signed, sealed and directed, as the Constitution
requires, to the Secretary of the U. States in Congs. assembled: that
the Senators and Representatives should convene at the time & place
assigned; that the Senators should appoint a President for the sole
purpose of receiving, opening, and counting the votes for President, and
that after he shall be chosen, the Congress, together with the President
should without delay proceed to execute this Constitution."

Adjourned

___________

1. The year "1787" is omitted in the transcript.

*2. This motion & appointment of the Comittee, not [3] in the printed
Journal. No report was made by the Come.

3. The words "do not appear" are substituted in the transcript for
"not."

4. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 7;
Pennsylvania, Delaware, South Carolina, no -- 3."

*5. See page 372 of the printed Journal.

6. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland,
aye -- 3; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Pennsylvania,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8."

7. In the transcript the vote reads: "Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia,
aye -- 3; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey,
Delaware, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8."


