WEDNESDAY  JUNE 27.   IN CONVENTION

Mr. RUTLIDGE moved to postpone the 6th Resolution, defining the powers
of Congs. in order to take up the 7 & 8 which involved the most
fundamental points; the rules of suffrage in the 2 branches which was
agreed to nem. con.

A question being proposed on Resol: 7 [1] : declaring that the suffrage
in the first branch sd. be according to an equitable ratio.

Mr. L. MARTIN contended at great length and with great eagerness that
the General Govt. was meant merely to preserve the State Governts.: not
to govern individuals: that its powers ought to be kept within narrow
limits; that if too little power was given to it, more might be added;
but that if too much, it could never be resumed: that individuals as
such have little to do but with their own States; that the Genl. Govt.
has no more to apprehend from the States composing the Union, while it
pursues proper measures, that [2] a Govt. over individuals has to
apprehend from its subjects: that to resort to the Citizens at large for
their sanction to a new Governt. will be throwing them back into a State
of Nature: that the dissolution of the State Govts. is involved in the
nature of the process: that the people have no right to do this without
the consent of those to whom they have delegated their power for State
purposes: through their tongue only they can speak, through their ears,
only, can hear: that the States have shewn a good disposition to comply
with the Acts, of Congs. weak, contemptibly weak as that body has been;
and have failed through inability alone to comply: that the heaviness of
the private debts, and the waste of property during the war, were the
chief causes of this inability: that he did not conceive the instances
mentioned by Mr. Madison of compacts between Va. & Md. between Pa. & N.
J. or of troops raised by Massts. for defence against the Rebels, to be
violations of the articles of confederation -- that an equal vote in
each State was essential to the federal idea, and was founded in justice
& freedom, not merely in policy: that tho' the States may give up this
right of sovereignty, yet they had not, and ought not: that the States
like individuals were in a State of nature equally sovereign & free. In
order to prove that individuals in a State of nature are equally free &
independent he read passages from Locke, Vattel, Lord Summers --
Priestly. To prove that the case is the same with States till they
surrender their equal sovereignty, he read other passages in Locke &
Vattel, and also Rutherford: that the States being equal cannot treat or
confederate so as to give up an equality of votes without giving up
their liberty: that the propositions on the table were a system of
slavery for 10 States: that as Va. Masts. & Pa. have 42/90 of the votes
they can do as they please without a miraculous Union of the other ten:
that they will have nothing to do, but to gain over one of the ten to
make them compleat masters of the rest: that they can then appoint an
Execute. & Judiciary & legislate [3] for them as they please: that there
was & would continue a natural predilection & partiality in men for
their own States; that the States, particularly the smaller, would never
allow a negative to be exercised over their laws: that no State in
ratifying the Confederation had objected to the equality of votes; that
the complaints at present run not agst. this equality but the want of
power; that 16 members from Va. would be more likely to act in concert
than a like number formed of members from different States; that instead
of a junction of the small States as a remedy, he thought a division of
the large States would be more eligible. -- This was the substance of a
speech which was continued more than three hours. He was too much
exhausted he said to finish his remarks, and reminded the House that he
should tomorrow, resume them.

Adjd.

___________

1. The words "the seventh Resolution" are substituted in the transcript
for "Resol; 7."

2. The word "than" is substituted in the transcript for "that."

3. The word "legislature" is substituted in the transcript for
"legislate."


