FRIDAY  JUNE 8th.   IN COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE

On a reconsideration of the clause giving the Natl. Legislature a
negative on such laws of the States as might be contrary to the articles
of Union, or Treaties with foreign nations,

Mr. PINKNEY moved "that the National Legislature shd. have authority to
negative all laws which they shd. judge to be improper." He urged that
such a universality of the power was indispensably necessary to render
it effectual; that the States must be kept in due subordination to the
nation; that if the States were left to act of themselves in any case,
it wd. be impossible to defend the national prerogatives, however
extensive they might be on paper; that the acts of Congress had been
defeated by this means; nor had foreign treaties escaped repeated
violations; that this universal negative was in fact the corner stone of
an efficient national Govt.; that under the British Govt. the negative
of the Crown had been found beneficial, and the States are more one
nation now, than the Colonies were then.

Mr. MADISON seconded the motion. He could not but regard an indefinite
power to negative legislative acts of the States as absolutely necessary
to a perfect system. Experience had evinced a constant tendency in the
States to encroach on the federal authority; to violate national
Treaties; to infringe the rights & interests of each other; to oppress
the weaker party within their respective jurisdictions. A negative was
the mildest expedient that could be devised for preventing these
mischiefs. The existence of such a check would prevent attempts to
commit them. Should no such precaution be engrafted, the only remedy wd.
lie [1] in an appeal to coercion. Was such a remedy eligible? was it
practicable? Could the national resources, if exerted to the utmost
enforce a national decree agst. Massts. abetted perhaps by several of
her neighbours? It wd. not be possible. A small proportion of the
Community, in a compact situation, acting on the defensive, and at one
of its extremities might at any time bid defiance to the National
authority. Any Govt. for the U. States formed on the supposed
practicability of using force agst. the unconstitutional proceedings of
the States, wd. prove as visionary & fallacious as the Govt. of Congs.
The negative wd. render the use of force unnecessary. The States cd. of
themselves then [2] pass no operative act, any more than one branch of a
Legislature where there are two branches, can proceed without the other.
But in order to give the negative this efficacy, it must extend to all
cases. A discrimination wd. only be a fresh source of contention between
the two authorities. In a word, to recur to the illustrations borrowed
from the planetary system. This prerogative of the General Govt. is the
great pervading principle that must controul the centrifugal tendency of
the States; which, without it, will continually fly out of their proper
orbits and destroy the order & harmony of the political System.

Mr. WILLIAMSON was agst. giving a power that might restrain the States
from regulating their internal police.

Mr. GERRY cd. not see the extent of such a power, and was agst. every
power that was not necessary. He thought a remonstrance agst.
unreasonable acts of the States wd. reclaim [3] them If it shd. not
force might be resorted to. He had no objection to authorize a negative
to paper money and similar measures. When the confederation was
depending before Congress, Massachussetts was then for inserting the
power of emitting paper money amg. the exclusive powers of Congress. He
observed that the proposed negative wd. extend to the regulations of the
Militia, a matter on which the existence of a [4] State might depend.
The Natl. Legislature with such a power may enslave the States. Such an
idea as this will never be acceded to. It has never been suggested or
conceived among the people. No speculative projector, and there are eno'
of that character among us, in politics as well as in other things, has
in any pamphlet or newspaper thrown out the idea. The States too have
different interests and are ignorant of each other's interests. The
negative therefore will be abused. New States too having separate views
from the old States will never come into the Union. They may even be
under some foreign influence; are they in such case to participate in
the negative on the will of the other States?

Mr. SHERMAN thought the cases in which the negative ought to be
exercised, might be defined. He wished the point might not be decided
till a trial at least shd. be made for that purpose.

Mr. WILSON would not say what modifications of the proposed power might
be practicable or expedient. But however novel it might appear the
principle of it when viewed with a close & steady eye, is right. There
is no instance in which the laws say that the individual shd. be bound
in one case, & at liberty to judge whether he will obey or disobey in
another. The cases are parallel. Abuses of the power over the individual
person may happen as well as over the individual States. Federal liberty
is to [5] States, what civil liberty, is to private individuals. And
States are not more unwilling to purchase it, by the necessary
concession of their political sovereignty, that [6] the savage is to
purchase civil liberty by the surrender of his [7] personal sovereignty,
which he enjoys in a State of nature. A definition of the cases in which
the Negative should be exercised, is impracticable. A discretion must be
left on one side or the other? will it not be most safely lodged on the
side of the Natl. Govt.? Among the first sentiments expressed in the
first Congs. one was that Virga. is no more, that Masts. is no [8], that
Pa. is no more &c. We are now one nation of brethren. We must bury all
local interests & distinctions. This language continued for some time.
The tables at length began to turn. No sooner were the State Govts.
formed than their jealousy & ambition began to display themselves. Each
endeavoured to cut a slice from the common loaf, to add to its own
morsel, till at length the confederation became frittered down to the
impotent condition in which it now stands. Review the progress of the
articles of Confederation thro' Congress & compare the first & last
draught of it. To correct its vices is the business of this convention.
One of its vices is the want of an effectual controul in the whole over
its parts. What danger is there that the whole will unnecessarily
sacrifice a part? But reverse the case, and leave the whole at the mercy
of each part, and will not the general interest be continually
sacrificed to local interests?

Mr. DICKENSON deemed it impossible to draw a line between the cases
proper & improper for the exercise of the negative. We must take our
choice of two things. We must either subject the States to the danger of
being injured by the power of the Natl. Govt. or the latter to the
danger of being injured by that of the States. He thought the danger
greater from the States. To leave the power doubtful, would be opening
another spring of discord, and he was for shutting as many of them as
possible. Mr. BEDFORD. In answer to his colleague's question where wd.
be the danger to the States from this power, would refer him to the
smallness of his own State which may be injured at pleasure without
redress. It was meant he found to strip the small States of their equal
right of suffrage. In this case Delaware would have about 1/90 for its
share in the General Councils, whilst Pa. & Va. would posses 1/3 of the
whole. Is there no difference of interests, no rivalship of commerce, of
manufactures? Will not these large States crush the small ones whenever
they stand in the way of their ambitious or interested views. This shews
the impossibility of adopting such a system as that on the table, or any
other founded on a change in the principle of representation. And after
all, if a State does not obey the law of the new System, must not force
be resorted to as the only ultimate remedy, in this as in any other
system. It seems as if Pa. & Va. by the conduct of their deputies wished
to provide a system in which they would have an enormous & monstrous
influence. Besides, How can it be thought that the proposed negative can
be exercised? are the laws of the States to be suspended in the most
urgent cases until they can be sent seven or eight hundred miles, and
undergo the deliberations [9] of a body who may be incapable of Judging
of them? Is the National Legislature too to sit continually in order to
revise the laws of the States?

Mr. MADISON observed that the difficulties which had been started were
worthy of attention and ought to be answered before the question was
put. The case of laws of urgent necessity must be provided for by some
emanation of the power from the Natl. Govt. into each State so far as to
give a temporary assent at least. This was the practice in Royal
Colonies before the Revolution and would not have been inconvenient, if
the supreme power of negativing had been faithful to the American
interest, and had possessed the necessary information. He supposed that
the negative might be very properly lodged in the senate alone, and that
the more numerous & expensive branch therefore might not be obliged to
sit constantly. -- He asked Mr. B. what would be the consequence to the
small States of a dissolution of the Union wch. seemed likely to happen
if no effectual substitute was made for the defective System existing,
and he did not conceive any effectual system could be substituted on any
other basis than that of a proportional suffrage? If the large States
possessed the avarice & ambition with which they were charged, would the
small ones in their neighbourhood, be more secure when all controul of a
Genl. Govt. was withdrawn.

Mr. BUTLER was vehement agst. the Negative in the proposed extent, as
cutting off all hope of equal justice to the distant States. The people
there would not he was sure give it a hearing.

On the question for extending the negative power to all cases as
proposd. by [Mr. P. & Mr. M.] Mass. ay. Cont. no. N. Y. no. N. J. no.
Pa. ay. Del. divd. Mr. Read & Mr. Dickenson ay. Mr. Bedford & Mr. Basset
no. Maryd. no. Va. ay. Mr. R. Mr. Mason no. Mr. Blair, Docr. Mc. g. Mr.
M. ay. Genl. W. not consulted. N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [10]

On motion of Mr. GERRY and Mr. KING tomorrow was assigned for
reconsidering the mode of appointing the National Executive: the
reconsideration being voted for by all the States except Connecticut &
N. Carolina.

Mr. PINKNEY and Mr. RUTLIDGE moved to add to Resoln. 4. [11] agreed to
by the Come. the following, viz. "that the States be divided into three
classes, the 1st. class to have 3 members, the 2d. two. & the 3d. one
member each; that an estimate be taken of the comparative importance
of each State at fixed periods, so as to ascertain the number of members
they may from time to time be entitled to"

The Committee then rose and the House adjourned.

___________

1. The word "be" is substituted in the transcript for "lie."

2. The word "then" is omitted in the transcript.

3. The word "restrain" is substituted in the transcript for "reclaim."

4. The word "the" is substituted in the transcript for "a."

5. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

6. The word "that" is changed to "than" in the transcript.

7. The word "the" is substituted in the transcript for "his."

8. The word "more" is here inserted in the transcript.

9. The transcript uses the word "deliberations" in the singular.

10. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Pennsylvania,
Virginia, [Mr. Randolph and Mr. Mason, no; Mr. Blair, Doctor McClurg and
Mr. Madison, aye; General Washington not consulted,] aye -- 3;
Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Maryland, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, no -- 7; Delaware, divided, [Mr. Read and Mr.
Dickinson, aye; Mr. Bedford and Mr. Basset, no]."

11. The words "the fourth Resolution" are substituted in the transcript
for "Resoln. 4."


