TEUSDAY  JUNE 19th.  IN COMMITTEE OF [1] WHOLE ON THE PROPOSITIONS OF
MR. PATTERSON

The substitute offered yesterday by Mr. Dickenson being rejected by a
vote now taken on it; Con. N. Y. N. J. Del. ay. [2] Mas. Pa. V. N. C. S.
C. Geo. no. [3] Mayd. divided.

Mr. PATTERSON's plan was again at large before the Committee.

Mr. MADISON. Much stress had [4] been laid by some gentlemen on the want
of power in the Convention to propose any other than a federal plan. To
what had been answered by others, he would only add, that neither of the
characteristics attached to a federal plan would support this objection.
One characteristic, was that in a federal Government, the power was
exercised not on the people individually; [5] but on the people
collectively, on the States. Yet in some instances as in piracies,
captures &c. the existing Confederacy, and in many instances, the
amendments to it proposed by Mr. Patterson, must operate immediately on
individuals. The other characteristic was that a federal Govt. derived
its appointments not immediately from the people, but from the States
which they respectively composed. Here too were facts on the other side.
In two of the States, Connect. and Rh. Island, the delegates to Congs.
were chosen, not by the Legislatures, but by the people at large; and
the plan of Mr. P. intended no change in this particular.

It had been alledged [by Mr. Patterson], that the Confederation having
been formed by unanimous consent, could be dissolved by unanimous
Consent only. Does this doctrine result from the nature of compacts?
does it arise from any particular stipulation in the articles of
Confederation? If we consider the federal union as analogous to the
fundamental compact by which individuals compose one Society, and which
must in its theoretic origin at least, have been the unanimous act of
the component members, it can not be said that no dissolution of the
compact can be effected without unanimous consent. A breach of the
fundamental principles of the compact by a part of the Society would
certainly absolve the other part from their obligations to it. If the
breach of any article by any of the parties, does not set the others at
liberty, it is because, the contrary is implied in the compact itself,
and particularly by that law of it, which gives an indifinite authority
to the majority to bind the whole in all cases. This latter circumstance
shews that we are not to consider the federal Union as analogous to the
social compact of individuals: for if it were so, a Majority would have
a right to bind the rest, and even to form a new Constitution for the
whole, which the Gentn. from N. Jersey would be among the last to admit.
If we consider the federal Union as analogous not to the social compacts
among individual men: but to the conventions among individual States.
What is the doctrine resulting from these conventions? Clearly,
according to the Expositors of the law of Nations, that a breach of any
one article, by any one party, leaves all the other parties at liberty,
to consider the whole convention as dissolved, unless they choose rather
to compel the delinquent party to repair the breach. In some treaties
indeed it is expressly stipulated that a violation of particular
articles shall not have this consequence, and even that particular
articles shall remain in force during war, which in general is [6]
understood to dissolve all subsisting Treaties. But are there any
exceptions of this sort to the Articles of confederation? So far from it
that there is not even an express stipulation that force shall be used
to compell an offending member of the Union to discharge its duty. He
observed that the violations of the federal articles had been numerous &
notorious. Among the most notorious was an act of N. Jersey herself; by
which she expressly refused to comply with a constitutional requisition
of Congs. and yielded no farther to the expostulations of their
deputies, than barely to rescind her vote of refusal without passing any
positive act of compliance. He did not wish to draw any rigid inferences
from these observations. He thought it proper however that the true
nature of the existing confederacy should be investigated, and he was
not anxious to strengthen the foundations on which it now stands.
Proceeding to the consideration of Mr. Patterson's plan, he stated the
object of a proper plan to be twofold. 1. [7] to preserve the Union. 2.
[7] to provide a Governmt. that will remedy the evils felt by the States
both in their united and individual capacities. Examine Mr. P.s plan, &
say whether it promises satisfaction in these respects.

1. Will it prevent those violations of the law of nations & of Treaties
which if not prevented must involve us in the calamities of foreign
wars? The tendency of the States to these violations has been manifested
in sundry instances. The files of Congs. contain complaints already,
from almost every nation with which treaties have been formed. Hitherto
indulgence has been shewn to us. This can not be the permanent
disposition of foreign nations. A rupture with other powers is among the
greatest of national calamities. It ought therefore to be effectually
provided that no part of a nation shall have it in its power to bring
them on the whole. The existing Confederacy does not sufficiently
provide against this evil. The proposed amendment to it does not supply
the omission. It leaves the will of the States as uncontrouled as ever.

2. Will it prevent encroachments on the federal authority? A tendency to
such encroachments has been sufficiently exemplified, among ourselves,
as well [8] in every other confederated republic antient and Modern. By
the federal articles, transactions with the Indians appertain to Congs.
Yet in several instances, the States have entered into treaties & wars
with them. In like manner no two or more States can form among
themselves any treaties &c. without the consent of Congs. Yet Virga. &
Maryd. in one instance -- Pena. & N. Jersey in another, have entered
into compacts, without previous application or subsequent apology. No
State again can of right raise troops in time of peace without the like
consent. Of all cases of the league, this seems to require the most
scrupulous observance. Has not Massts, notwithstanding, the most
powerful member of the Union, already raised a body of troops? Is she
not now augmenting them, without having even deigned to apprise Congs.
of Her intention? In fine -- Have we not seen the public land dealt out
to Cont. to bribe her acquiescence in the decree constitutionally
awarded agst. her claim on the territory of Pena.? for no other possible
motive can account for the policy of Congs. in that measure? -- If we
recur to the examples of other confederacies, we shall find in all of
them the same tendency of the parts to encroach on the authority of the
whole. He then reviewed the Amphyctionic & Achaean confederacies among
the antients, and the Helvetic, Germanic & Belgic among the moderns,
tracing their analogy to the U. States -- in the constitution and extent
of their federal authorities -- in the tendency of the particular
members to usurp on these authorities; and to bring confusion & ruin on
the whole. -- He observed that the plan of Mr. Pat-son besides omitting
a controul over the States as a general defence of the federal
prerogatives was particularly defective in two of its provisions. 1. [9]
Its ratification was not to be by the people at large, but by the
legislatures. It could not therefore render the Acts of Congs. in
pursuance of their powers, even legally paramount to the Acts of the
States. 2. [10] It gave to the federal Tribunal an appellate
jurisdiction only -- even in the criminal cases enumerated, The
necessity of any such provision supposed a danger of undue acquittals
[11] in the State tribunals. Of what avail cd. [12] an appellate
tribunal be, after an acquittal? Besides in most if not all of the
States, the Executives have by their respective Constitutions the right
of pardg. How could this be taken from them by a legislative [13]
ratification only?

3. Will it prevent trespasses of the States on each other? Of the e
enough has been already seen. He instanced Acts of Virga. & Maryland
which give [14] a preference to their own Citizens in cases where the
Citizens of other States are entitled to equality of privileges by the
Articles of Confederation. He considered the emissions of paper money &
other kindred measures as also aggressions. The States relatively to one
an other being each of them either Debtor or Creditor; The creditor
States must suffer unjustly from every emission by the debtor States. We
have seen retaliating acts on this subject which threatened danger not
to the harmony only, but the tranquility of the Union. The plan of Mr.
Paterson, not giving even a negative on the acts of the States, left
them as much at liberty as ever to execute their unrighteous projects
agst. each other.

4. Will it secure the internal tranquility of the States themselves? The
insurrections in Massts. admonished all the States of the danger to
which they were exposed. Yet the plan of Mr. P. contained no provisions
for supplying the defect of the Confederation on this point. According
to the Republican theory indeed, Right & power being both vested in the
majority, are held to be synonimous. According to fact & experience, a
minority may in an appeal to force be an overmatch for the majority. 1.
[15] If the minority happen to include all such as possess the skill &
habits of military life, with such as possess the great pecuniary
resources, one third may conquer the remaining two thirds. 2. [16] one
third of those who participate in the choice of rulers may be rendered a
majority by the accession of those whose poverty disqualifies them from
a suffrage, & who for obvious reasons may [17] be more ready to join the
standard of sedition than that of the [18] established Government. 3.
[19] where slavery exists, the Republican Theory becomes still more
fallacious.

5. Will it secure a good internal legislation & administration to the
particular States? In developing the evils which vitiate the political
system of the U.S. it is proper to take into view those which prevail
within the States individually as well as those which affect them
collectively: Since the former indirectly affect the whole; and there is
great reason to believe that the pressure of them had a full share in
the motives which produced the present Convention. Under this head he
enumerated and animadverted on 1. [20] the multiplicity of the laws
passed by the several States. 2. [20] the mutability of their laws. 3.
[20] the injustice of them. 4. [21] the impotence of them: observing
that Mr. Patterson's plan contained no remedy for this dreadful class of
evils, and could not therefore be received as an adequate provision for
the exigences of the Community.

6. Will it secure the Union agst. the influence of foreign powers over
its members. He pretended not to say that any such influence had yet
been tried: but it was naturally to be expected that occasions would
produce it. As lessons which claimed particular attention, he cited the
intrigues practised among the Amphyctionic Confederates first by the
Kings of Persia, and afterwards fatally by Philip of Macedon: among the
Achaeans, first by Macedon & afterwards no less fatally by Rome: among
the Swiss by Austria, France & the lesser neighbouring powers: among the
members of the Germanic Body by France, England, Spain & Russia -- : and
in the Belgic Republic, by all the great neighbouring powers. The plan
of Mr. Patterson, not giving to the general Councils any negative on the
will of the particular States, left the door open for the like
pernicious machinations among ourselves.

7. He begged the smaller States which were most attached to Mr.
Pattersons plan to consider the situation in which it would leave them.
In the first place they would continue to bear the whole expence of
maintaining their Delegates in Congress. It ought not to be said that if
they were willing to bear this burden, no others had a right to
complain. As far as it led the small States to forbear keeping up a
representation, by which the public business was delayed, it was
evidently a matter of common concern. An examination of the minutes of
Congress would satisfy every one that the public business had been
frequently delayed by this cause; and that the States most frequently
unrepresented in Congs. were not the larger States. He reminded the
convention of another consequence of leaving on a small State the burden
of maintaining a Representation in Congs. During a considerable period
of the War, one of the Representatives of Delaware, in whom alone before
the signing of the Confederation the entire vote of that State and after
that event one half of its vote, frequently resided, was a Citizen &
Resident of Pena. and held an office in his own State incompatible with
an appointment from it to Conga. During another period, the same State
was represented by three delegates two of whom were citizens of Penna.
and the third a Citizen of New Jersey. These expedients must have been
intended to avoid the burden of supporting delegates from their own
State. But whatever might have been ye. cause, was not in effect the
vote of one State doubled, and the influence of another increased by it?
In the 2d. place The coercion, on which the efficacy of the plan
depends, can never be exerted but on themselves. The larger States will
be impregnable, the smaller only can feel the vengeance of it. He
illustrated the position by the history of the Amphyctionic
Confederates: and the ban of the German Empire. It was the cobweb wch.
could entangle the weak, but would be the sport of the strong.

8. He begged them to consider the situation in which they would remain
in case their pertinacious adherence to an inadmissible plan, should
prevent the adoption of any plan. The contemplation of such an event was
painful; but it would be prudent to submit to the task of examining it
at a distance, that the means of escaping it might be the more readily
embraced. Let the Union of the States be dissolved, and one of two
consequences must happen. Either the States must remain individually
independent & sovereign; or two or more Confederacies must be formed
among them. In the first event would the small States be more secure
agst. the ambition & power of their larger neighbours, than they would
be under a general Government pervading with equal energy every part of
the Empire, and having an equal interest in protecting every part agst.
every other part? In the second, can the smaller expect that their
larger neighbours would confederate with them on the principle of the
present confederacy, which gives to each member, an equal suffrage; or
that they would exact less severe concessions from the smaller States,
than are proposed in the scheme of Mr. Randolph?

The great difficulty lies in the affair of Representation; and if this
could be adjusted, all others would be surmountable. It was admitted by
both the gentlemen from N. Jersey [Mr. Brearly and Mr. Patterson] that
it would not be just to allow Virga. which was 16 times as large as
Delaware an equal vote only. Their language was that it would not be
safe for Delaware to allow Virga. 16 times as many votes. The expedient
proposed by them was that all the States should be thrown into one mass
and a new partition be made into 13 equal parts. Would such a scheme be
practicable? The dissimilarities existing in the rules of property, as
well as in the manners, habits and prejudices of the [22] different
States, amounted to a prohibition of the attempt. It had been found
impossible for the power of one of the most absolute princes in Europe
[K. of France] directed by the wisdom of one of the most enlightened and
patriotic Ministers [Mr. Neckar] that any age has produced to equalize
in some points only the different usages & regulations of the different
provinces. But admitting a general amalgamation and repartition of the
States to be practicable, and the danger apprehended by the smaller
States from a proportional representation to be real; would not a
particular and voluntary coalition of these with their neighbours, be
less inconvenient to the whole community, and equally effectual for
their own safety. If N. Jersey or Delaware conceived that an advantage
would accrue to them from an equalization of the States, in which case
they would necessaryly form a junction with their neighbours, why might
not this end be attained by leaving them at liberty by the Constitution
to form such a junction whenever they pleased? And why should they wish
to obtrude a like arrangement on all the States, when it was, to say the
least, extremely difficult, would be obnoxious to many of the States,
and when neither the inconveniency, [23] nor the benefit of the
expedient to themselves, would be lessened, by confining it to
themselves. -- The prospect of many new States to the Westward was
another consideration of importance. If they should come into the Union
at all, they would come when they contained but few inhabitants. If they
shd. be entitled to vote according to their proportions of inhabitants,
all would be right & safe. Let them have an equal vote, and a more
objectionable minority than ever might give law to the whole.

On a question for postponing generally the 1st. proposition of Mr.
Patterson's plan, it was agreed to: N. Y. & N J. only being no -- 

On the question moved by Mr. King whether the Committee should rise &
Mr. Randolphs propositions be re-reported without alteration, which was
in fact a question whether Mr. R's should be adhered to as preferable to
those of Mr. Patterson:

Massts. ay. Cont ay. N. Y. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. divd. Va.
ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [24]

Insert here from Printed Journal p. 13 [25] copy of the Resolns. of Mr.
R. as altered in the Come. and reported to the House [26]

[State of the resolutions submitted to the consideration of the House by
the honorable Mr. Randolph, as altered, amended, and agreed to, in a
Committee of the whole House.

1. Resolved that it is the opinion of this Committee that a national
government ought to be established consisting of a Supreme Legislative,
Judiciary, and Executive.

2. Resolved. that the national Legislature ought to consist of Two
Branches.

3. Resolved that the members of the first branch of the national
Legislature ought to be elected by the People of the several States for
the term of Three years. to receive fixed stipends, by which they may be
compensated for the devotion of their time to public service to be paid
out of the National Treasury. to be ineligible to any Office established
by a particular State or under the authority of the United-States
(except those peculiarly belonging to the functions of the first branch)
during the term of service, and under the national government for the
space of one year after it's expiration.

4. Resolved. that the members of the second Branch of the national
Legislature ought to be chosen by the individual Legislatures. to be of
the age of thirty years at least. to hold their offices for a term
sufficient to ensure their independency, namely seven years. to receive
fixed stipends, by which they may be compensated for the devotion of
their time to public service -- to be paid out of the National Treasury
to be ineligible to any office established by a particular State, or
under the authority of the United States (except those peculiarly
belonging to the functions of the second branch) during the term of
service, and under the national government, for the space of one year
after it's expiration.

5. Resolved that each branch ought to possess the right of originating
acts.

6. Resolved. that the national Legislature ought to be empowered to
enjoy the legislative rights vested in Congress by the confederation --
and moreover to legislate in all cases to which the separate States are
incompetent: or in which the harmony of the United States may be
interrupted by the exercise of individual legislation. to negative all
laws passed by the several States contravening, in the opinion of the
national Legislature, the articles of union, or any treaties subsisting
under the authority of the union.

7. Resolved. that the right of suffrage in the first branch of the
national Legislature ought not to be according to the rule established
in the articles of confederation: but according to some equitable ratio
of representation -- namely, in proportion to the whole number of white
and other free citizens and inhabitants of every age, sex, and condition
including those bound to servitude for a term of years, and three fifths
of all other persons not comprehended in the foregoing description,
except Indians, not paying taxes in each State.

8. Resolved. that the right of suffrage in the second branch of the
national Legislature ought to be according to the rule established for
the first.

9. Resolved. that a national Executive be instituted to consist of a
single person. to be chosen by the National Legislature. for the term of
seven years. with power to carry into execution the national Laws, to
appoint to Offices in cases not otherwise provided for to be ineligible
a second time, and to be removable on impeachment and conviction of mal
practice or neglect of duty. to receive a fixed stipend, by which he may
be compensated for the devotion of his time to public service to be paid
out of the national Treasury.

10. Resolved. that the national executive shall have a right to negative
any legislative act: which shall not be afterwards passed unless by two
third parts of each branch of the national Legislature.

11. Resolved. that a national Judiciary be established to consist of One
Supreme Tribunal. The Judges of which to be appointed by the second
Branch of the National Legislature. to hold their offices during good
behaviour to receive, punctually, at stated times, a fixed compensation
for their services: in which no encrease or diminution shall be made so
as to affect the persons actually in office at the time of such encrease
or diminution.

12. Resolved. That the national Legislature be empowered to appoint
inferior Tribunals.

13. Resolved. that the jurisdiction of the national Judiciary shall
extend to cases which respect the collection of the national revenue:
impeachments of any national officers: and questions which involve the
national peace and harmony.

14. Resolved. that provision ought to be made for the admission of
States, lawfully arising within the limits of the United States, whether
from a voluntary junction of government and territory, or otherwise,
with the consent of a number of voices in the national Legislature less
than the whole.

15. Resolved. that provision ought to be made for the continuance of
Congress and their authorities until a given day after the reform of the
articles of Union shall be adopted; and for the completion of all their
engagements.

16. Resolved that a republican constitution, and its existing laws,
ought to be guaranteed to each State by the United States.

17. Resolved. that provision ought to be made for the amendment of the
articles of Union, whensoever it shall seem necessary.

18. Resolved. that the Legislative, Executive, and Judiciary powers
within the several States ought to be bound by oath to support the
articles of Union.

19. Resolved. that the amendments which shall be offered to the
confederation by the Convention, ought at a proper time or times, after
the approbation of Congress to be submitted to an assembly or assemblies
of representatives, recommended by the several Legislatures, to be
expressly chosen by the People to consider and decide thereon.

(Of [27] Mr. Randolph's plan as reported from the Committee) [28]. the
1. propos: "that a Natl. Govt. ought to be established consisting &c."
being taken up in the House. [29]

Mr. WILSON observed that by a Natl. Govt. he did not mean one that would
swallow up the State Govts. as seemed to be wished by some gentlemen. He
was tenacious of the idea of preserving the latter. He thought, contrary
to the opinion of [Col. Hamilton] that they might not only subsist but
subsist on friendly terms with the former. They were absolutely
necessary for certain purposes which the former could not reach. All
large Governments must be subdivided into lesser jurisdictions. As
Examples he mentioned Persia, Rome, and particularly the divisions &
subdivisions of England by Alfred.

Col. HAMILTON coincided with the proposition as it stood in the Report.
He had not been understood yesterday. By an abolition of the States, he
meant that no boundary could be drawn between the National & State
Legislatures; that the former must therefore have indefinite authority.
If it were limited at all, the rivalship of the States would gradually
subvert it. Even as Corporations the extent of some of them as Va.
Massts. &c. would be formidable. As States, he thought they ought to be
abolished. But he admitted the necessity of leaving in them, subordinate
jurisdictions. The examples of Persia & the Roman Empire, cited by [Mr.
Wilson] were he thought in favor of his doctrine: the great powers
delegated to the Satraps & proconsuls, having frequently produced
revolts, and schemes of independence.

Mr. KING, wished as every thing depended on this proposition, that no
objections might be improperly indulged agst. the phraseology of it. He
conceived that the import of the terms "States" "Sovereignty" "national"
"federal," had been often used & applied in the discussions inaccurately
& delusively. The States were not "Sovereigns" in the sense contended
for by some. They did not possess the peculiar features of sovereignty,
they could not make war, nor peace, nor alliances nor treaties.
Considering them as political Beings, they were dumb, for they could not
speak to any foreign Sovereign whatever. They were deaf, for they could
not hear any propositions from such Sovereign. They had not even the
organs or faculties of defence or offence, for they could not of
themselves raise troops, or equip vessels, for war. On the other side,
if the Union of the States comprizes the idea of a confederation, it
comprizes that also of consolidation. A Union of the States is a Union
of the men composing them, from whence a national character results to
the whole. Congs. can act alone without the States -- they can act &
their acts will be binding agst. the Instructions of the States. If they
declare war: war is de jure declared -- captures made in pursuance of it
are lawful -- No acts of the States can vary the situation, or prevent
the judicial consequences. If the States therefore retained some portion
of their sovereignty, they had certainly divested themselves of
essential portions of it. If they formed a confederacy in some respects
-- they formed a Nation in others -- The Convention could clearly
deliberate on & propose any alterations that Congs. could have done
under ye. federal articles, and could not Congs. propose by virtue of
the last article, a change in any article whatever: and as well that
relating to the equality of suffrage, as any other. He made these
remarks to obviate some scruples which had been expressed. He doubted
much the practicability of annihilating the States; but thought that
much of their power ought to be taken from them. Mr. MARTIN, said he
considered that the separation from G. B. placed the 13 States in a
state of Nature towards each other; that they would have remained in
that state till this time, but for the confederation; that they entered
into the confederation on the footing of equality; that they met now to
to amend it on the same footing; and that he could never accede to a
plan that would introduce an inequality and lay 10 States at the mercy
of Va. Massts. and Penna.

Mr. WILSON, could not admit the doctrine that when the Colonies became
independent of G. Britain, they became independent also of each other.
He read the declaration of Independence, observing thereon that the
United Colonies were declared to be free & independent States; and
inferring that they were independent, not individually but Unitedly and
that they were confederated as they were independent, States.

Col. HAMILTON, assented to the doctrine of Mr. Wilson. He denied the
doctrine that the States were thrown into a State of Nature He was not
yet prepared to admit the doctrine that the Confederacy, could be
dissolved by partial infractions of it. He admitted that the States met
now on an equal footing but could see no inference from that against
concerting a change of the system in this particular. He took this
occasion of observing for the purpose of appeasing the fears of the
small States, that two circumstances would render them secure under a
National Govt. in which they might lose the equality of rank they now
held: one was the local situation of the 3 largest States Virga. Masts.
& Pa. They were separated from each other by distance of place, and
equally so, by all the peculiarities which distinguish the interests of
one State from those of another. No combination therefore could be
dreaded. In the second place, as there was a gradation in the States
from Va. the largest down to Delaware the smallest, it would always
happen that ambitious combinations among a few States might & wd. be
counteracted by defensive combinations of greater extent among the rest.
No combination has been seen among [30] large Counties merely as such,
agst. lesser Counties. The more close the Union of the States, and the
more compleat the authority of the whole: the less opportunity will be
allowed [31] the stronger States to injure the weaker.

Adjd.

___________

1. The word "The" is here inserted in the transcript.

2. The figure "4" is here inserted in the transcript.

3. The figure "6" is here inserted in the transcript.

4. The word "has" is substituted in the transcript for "had."

5. The transcript italicizes the word "individually."

6. The words "in general is" are transposed to read "is in general" in
the transcript.

7. The figures "1" and "2" are changed to "first" and "secondly" in the
transcript.

8. The word "as" is here inserted in the transcript.

9. The figure "1" is changed to "In the first place" in the transcript.

10. The figure "2" is changed to "and in the second place" in the
transcript.

11. The transcript uses the word "acquittals" in the singular.

12. The word "would" is substituted in the transcript for "cd."

13. The word "legislative" is not italicized in the transcript.

14. The word "gave" is substituted in the transcript for "give."

15. The figure "1" is changed to "in the first place" in the transcript.

16. The figure "2" is changed to "in the second place" in the transcript.

17. The word "must" is substituted in the transcript for "may".

18. The word "the" is omitted in the transcript.

19. The figure "3" is changed to "and in the third place."

20. The figures "1," "2" and "3" are changed to "first," "secondly," and
"thirdly" in the transcript.

21. The figure "4" is changed to "and fourthly" in the transcript.

22. The word "the" is crossed out in the transcript.

23. The word "inconveniency" is changed to "inconvenience" in the
transcript.

24. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut,
Pennsylvania, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye --
7; New York, New Jersey, Delaware, no -- 3; Maryland divided."

25. Found at page 134 instead of page 13, and here printed from the
original manuscript deposited in the Department of State by President
Washington.

26. Madison's direction concerning Mr. Randolph's Resolutions and the
Resolutions themselves are omitted in the transcript.

27. The word "of" is omitted in the transcript.

28. The words "June 13 being before the house" are here inserted in the
transcript.

29. The words "in the House" are omitted in the transcript.

30. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

31. The word "to" is here inserted in the transcript.


