FRIDAY  JUNE 1st 1787

William Houston from Georgia took his seat.

The Committee of the whole proceeded to Resolution 7. [1] "that a
national Executive be instituted, to be chosen by the national
Legislature -- for the term of ______ years &c to be ineligible
thereafter, to possess the executive powers of Congress &c."

Mr. PINKNEY was for a vigorous Executive but was afraid the Executive
powers of the existing Congress might extend to peace & war &c., which
would render the Executive a monarchy, of the worst kind, to wit an
elective one.

Mr. WILSON moved that the Executive consist of a single person.

Mr. C PINKNEY seconded the motion, so as to read "that a National Ex. to
consist of a single person, be instituted.

A considerable pause ensuing and the Chairman asking if he should put
the question, DOCr. FRANKLIN observed that it was a point of great
importance and wished that the gentlemen would deliver their sentiments
on it before the question was put.

Mr. RUTLIDGE animadverted on the shyness of gentlemen on this and other
subjects. He said it looked as if they supposed themselves precluded by
having frankly disclosed their opinions from afterwards changing them,
which he did not take to be at all the case. He said he was for vesting
the Executive power in a single person, tho' he was not for giving him
the power of war and peace. A single man would feel the greatest
responsibility and administer the public affairs best.

Mr. SHERMAN said he considered the Executive magistracy as nothing more
than an institution for carrying the will of the Legislature into
effect, that the person or persons ought to be appointed by and
accountable to the Legislature only, which was the depositary of the
supreme will of the Society. As they were the best judges of the
business which ought to be done by the Executive department, and
consequently of the number necessary from time to time for doing it, he
wished the number might not be fixed but that the legislature should be
at liberty to appoint one or more as experience might dictate.

Mr. WILSON preferred a single magistrate, as giving most energy dispatch
and responsibility to the office. He did not consider the Prerogatives
of the British Monarch as a proper guide in defining the Executive
powers. Some of these prerogatives were of Legislative nature. Among
others that of war & peace &c. The only powers he conceived [2] strictly
Executive were those of executing the laws, and appointing officers, not
appertaining to and appointed by the Legislature.

Mr. GERRY favored the policy of annexing a Council to the Executive in
order to give weight & inspire confidence. Mr. RANDOLPH strenuously
opposed a unity in the Executive magistracy. He regarded it as the
foetus of monarchy. We had he said no motive to be governed by the
British Governmt. as our prototype. He did not mean however to throw
censure on that Excellent fabric. If we were in a situation to copy it
he did not know that he should be opposed to it; but the fixt genius of
the people of America required a different form of Government. He could
not see why the great requisites for the Executive department, vigor,
despatch & responsibility could not be found in three men, as well as in
one man. The Executive ought to be independent. It ought therefore in
order to support its independence to consist of more than one.

Mr. WILSON said that unity in the Executive instead of being the fetus
of monarchy would be the best safeguard against tyranny. He repeated
that he was not governed by the British Model which was inapplicable to
the situation of this Country; the extent of which was so great, and the
manners so republican, that nothing but a great confederated Republic
would do for it. Mr. Wilson's motion for a single magistrate was
postponed by common consent, the Committee seeming unprepared for any
decision on it; and the first part of the clause agreed to, viz -- "that
a National Executive be instituted."

Mr. MADISON thought it would be proper, before a choice shd. be made
between a unity and a plurality in the Executive, to fix the extent of
the Executive authority; that as certain powers were in their nature
Executive, and must be given to that departmt. whether administered by
one or more persons, a definition of their extent would assist the
judgment in determining how far they might be safely entrusted to a
single officer. He accordingly moved that so much of the clause before
the Committee as related to the powers of the Executive shd. be struck
out & that after the words "that a national Executive ought to be
instituted" there be inserted the words following viz. "with power to
carry into effect the national laws, to appoint to offices in cases not
otherwise provided for, and to execute such other powers "not
Legislative nor Judiciary in their nature," as may from time to time be
delegated by the national Legislature." The words "not legislative nor
judiciary in their nature" were added to the proposed amendment in
consequence of a suggestion by Genl. Pinkney that improper powers might
otherwise be delegated.

Mr. WILSON seconded this motion -- 

Mr. PINKNEY moved to amend the amendment by striking out the last member
of it; viz: "and to execute such other powers not Legislative nor
Judiciary in their nature as may from time to time be delegated." He
said they were unnecessary, the object of them being included in the
"power [3] to carry into effect the national laws."

Mr. RANDOLPH seconded the motion.

Mr. MADISON did not know that the words were absolutely necessary, or
even the preceding words -- "to appoint to offices &c. the whole being
perhaps included in the first member of the proposition. He did not
however see any inconveniency [4] in retaining them, and cases might
happen in which they might serve to prevent doubts and misconstructions.

In consequence of the motion of Mr. Pinkney, the question on Mr.
Madison's motion was divided; and the words objected to by Mr. Pinkney
struck out; by the votes of Connecticut, N. Y. N. J. Pena. Del. N. C. &
Geo. [5] agst. Mass. Virga. & S. Carolina [5] the preceding part of the
motion being first agreed to; Connecticut divided, all the other States
in the affirmative. The next clause in Resolution 7, [6] relating to the
mode of appointing, & the duration of, the Executive being under
consideration,

Mr. WILSON said he was almost unwilling to declare the mode which he
wished to take place, being apprehensive that it might appear
chimerical. He would say however at least that in theory he was for an
election by the people. Experience, particularly in N. York & Massts.,
shewed that an election of the first magistrate by the people at large,
was both a convenient & successful mode. The objects of choice in such
cases must be persons whose merits have general notoriety.

Mr. SHERMAN was for the appointment by the Legislature, and for making
him absolutely dependent on that body, as it was the will of that which
was to be executed. An independence of the Executive on the supreme
Legislature, was in his opinion the very essence of tyranny if there was
any such thing.

Mr. WILSON moves that the blank for the term of duration should be
filled with three years, observing at the same time that he preferred
this short period, on the supposition that a reeligibility would be
provided for.

Mr. PINKNEY moves for seven years.

Mr. SHERMAN was for three years, and agst. the doctrine of rotation as
throwing out of office the men best qualifyed to execute its duties.

Mr. MASON was for seven years at least, and for prohibiting a
re-eligibility as the best expedient both for preventing the effect of a
false complaisance on the side of the Legislature towards unfit
characters; and a temptation on the side of the Executive to intrigue
with the Legislature for a re-appointment.

Mr. BEDFORD was strongly opposed to so long a term as seven years. He
begged the committee to consider what the situation of the Country would
be, in case the first magistrate should be saddled on it for such a
period and it should be found on trial that he did not possess the
qualifications ascribed to him, or should lose them after his
appointment. An impeachment he said would be no cure for this evil, as
an impeachment would reach misfeasance only, not incapacity. He was for
a triennial election, and for an ineligibility after a period of nine
years.

On the question for seven years, [7] Massts. dividd. Cont. no. N. Y. ay.
N. J. ay. Pena. ay. Del. ay. Virga. ay. N. C. no. S. C. no. Geor. no.
[8] There being 5ays, 4 noes, 1 divd., a question was asked whether a
majority had voted in the affirmative? The President decided that it was
an affirmative vote.

The mode of appointing the Executive was the next question.

Mr. WILSON renewed his declarations in favor of an appointment by the
people. He wished to derive not only both branches of the Legislature
from the people, without the intervention of the State Legislatures but
the Executive also; in order to make them as independent as possible of
each other, as well as of the States;

Col. MASON favors the idea, but thinks it impracticable. He wishes
however that Mr. Wilson might have time to digest it into his own form.
-- the clause "to be chosen by the National Legislature" -- was
accordingly postponed. -- 

Mr. RUTLIDGE suggests an election of the Executive by the second branch
only of the national Legislature.

The Committee then rose and the House

Adjourned.

___________

1. The words "the seventh Resolution" are substituted in the transcript
for "Resolution 7' and the words of the resolution are italicized.

2. The transcript here substitutes the word "considered" for "conceived."

3. The transcript uses the word "power" in the plural.

4. The transcript changes the word "inconveniency" to "inconvenience."

5. In the transcript the figures "7" and "3" are inserted after the
States Georgia and South Carolina respectively.

6. The words "the seventh Resolution" are substituted in the transcript
for "Resolution 7."

7. The transcript italicizes the phrase "for seven years."

8. In the transcript the vote reads: "New York, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Virginia, aye -- 5; Connecticut, North Carolina,
South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 4; Massachusetts, divided."


