MONDAY  JUNE 4th [1]   IN COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE

The Question was resumed on motion of Mr. PINKNEY 2ded. by [2] WILSON,
"shall the blank for the number of the Executive be filled with a single
person?"

Mr. WILSON was in favor of the motion. It had been opposed by the
gentleman from Virga. [Mr. Randolph] but the arguments used had not
convinced him. He observed that the objections of Mr. R. were levelled
not so much agst. the measure itself, as agst. its unpopularity. If he
could suppose that it would occasion a rejection of the plan of which it
should form a part, though the part was [3] an important one, yet he
would give it up rather than lose the whole. On examination he could see
no evidence of the alledged antipathy of the people. On the contrary he
was persuaded that it does not exist. All know that a single magistrate
is not a King. One fact has great weight with him. All the 13 States tho
agreeing in scarce any other instance, agree in placing a single
magistrate at the head of the Governt. The idea of three heads has taken
place in none. The degree of power is indeed different; but there are no
co-ordinate heads. In addition to his former reasons for preferring a
unity, he would mention another. The tranquility not less than the vigor
of the Govt. he thought would be favored by it. Among three equal
members, he foresaw nothing but uncontrouled, continued, & violent
animosities; which would not only interrupt the public administration;
but diffuse their poison thro' the other branches of Govt., thro' the
States, and at length thro' the people at large. If the members were to
be unequal in power the principle of the [4] opposition to the unity was
given up. If equal, the making them an odd number would not be a remedy.
In Courts of Justice there are two sides only to a question. In the
Legislative & Executive departmts. questions have commonly many sides.
Each member therefore might espouse a separate one & no two agree.

Mr. SHERMAN. This matter is of great importance and ought to be well
considered before it is determined. Mr. Wilson he said had observed that
in each State a single magistrate was placed at the head of the Govt. It
was so he admitted, and properly so, and he wished the same policy to
prevail in the federal Govt. But then it should be also remarked that in
all the States there was a Council of advice, without which the first
magistrate could not act. A council he thought necessary to make the
establishment acceptable to the people. Even in G. B. the King has a
Council; and though he appoints it himself, its advice has its weight
with him, and attracts the Confidence of the people.

Mr. WILLIAMSON asks Mr. WILSON whether he means to annex a Council.

Mr. WILSON means to have no Council, which oftener serves to cover, than
prevent malpractices.

Mr. GERRY was at a loss to discover the policy of three members for the
Executive. It Wd. be extremely inconvenient in many instances,
particularly in military matters, whether relating to the militia, an
army, or a navy. It would be a general with three heads.

On the question for a single Executive it was agreed to Massts. ay.
Cont. ay. N. Y. no. Pena. ay. Del. no. Maryd. no. Virg. ay. [Mr. R. &
Mr. Blair no -- Docr. Mc.Cg. Mr. M. & Gen W. ay. Col. Mason being no,
but not in house, Mr. Wythe ay but gone home]. N. C. ay. S. C. ay.
Georga ay. [5]

First Clause of Proposition 8th. [6] relating to a Council of Revision
taken into consideration.

Mr. GERRY doubts whether the Judiciary ought to form a part of it, as
they will have a sufficient check agst. encroachments on their own
department by their exposition of the laws, which involved a power of
deciding on their Constitutionality. In some States the Judges had
actually set aside laws as being agst. the Constitution. This was done
too with general approbation. It was quite foreign from the nature of
ye. office to make them judges of the policy of public measures. He
moves to postpone the clause in order to propose "that the National
Executive shall have a right to negative any Legislative act which shall
not be afterwards passed by _____ parts of each branch of the
national Legislature."

Mr. KING seconds the motion, observing that the Judges ought to be able
to expound the law as it should come before them, free from the bias of
having participated in its formation.

Mr. WILSON thinks neither the original proposition nor the amendment go
far enough. If the Legislative Exetv & Judiciary ought to be distinct &
independent. The Executive ought to have an absolute negative. Without
such a self-defense the Legislature can at any moment sink it into
non-existence. He was for varying the proposition in such a manner as to
give the Executive & Judiciary jointly an absolute negative.

On the question to postpone in order to take Mr. Gerry's proposition
into consideration it was agreed to, Masss. ay. Cont. no. N. Y. ay. Pa.
ay. Del. no. Maryd. no. Virga. no. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Ga. ay. [7]

Mr. GERRY'S proposition being now before [8] Committee, Mr. WILSON & Mr.
HAMILTON move that the last part of it [viz. "Wch. Sl. not be afterwds.
passed unless [9] by _____ parts of each branch of the National
legislature] be struck out, so as to give the Executive an absolute
negative on the laws. There was no danger they thought of such a power
being too much exercised. It was mentioned by Col: HAMILTON that the
King of G. B. had not exerted his negative since the Revolution.

Mr. GERRY sees no necessity for so great a controul over the legislature
as the best men in the Community would be comprised in the two branches
of it.

DOCr. FRANKLIN, said he was sorry to differ from his colleague for whom
he had a very great respect, on any occasion, but he could not help it
on this. He had had some experience of this check in the Executive on
the Legislature, under the proprietary Government of Pena. The negative
of the Governor was constantly made use of to extort money. No good law
whatever could be passed without a private bargain with him. An increase
of his salary, or some donation, was always made a condition; till at
last it became the regular practice, to have orders in his favor on the
Treasury, presented along with the bills to be signed, so that he might
actually receive the former before he should sign the latter. When the
Indians were scalping the western people, and notice of it arrived, the
concurrence of the Governor in the means of self-defence could not be
got, till it was agreed that his Estate should be exempted from
taxation: so that the people were to fight for the security of his
property, whilst he was to bear no share of the burden. This was a
mischievous sort of check. If the Executive was to have a Council, such
a power would be less objectionable. It was true the King of G. B. had
not, as was said, exerted his negative since the Revolution; but that
matter was easily explained. The bribes and emoluments now given to the
members of parliament rendered it unnecessary, every thing being done
according to the will of the Ministers. He was afraid, if a negative
should be given as proposed, that more power and money would be
demanded, till at last eno' would be gotten [10] to influence & bribe
the Legislature into a compleat subjection to the will of the Executive.

Mr. SHERMAN was agst. enabling any one man to stop the will of the
whole. No one man could be found so far above all the rest in wisdom. He
thought we ought to avail ourselves of his wisdom in revising the laws,
but not permit him to overule the decided and cool opinions of the
Legislature.

Mr. MADISON supposed that if a proper proportion of each branch should
be required to overrule the objections of the Executive, it would answer
the same purpose as an absolute negative. It would rarely if ever happen
that the Executive constituted as ours is proposed to be would, have
firmness eno' to resist the legislature, unless backed by a certain part
of the body itself. The King of G. B. with all his splendid attributes
would not be able to withstand ye. unanimous and eager wishes of both
houses of Parliament. To give such a prerogative would certainly be
obnoxious to the temper of this Country; its present temper at least.

Mr. WILSON believed as others did that this power would seldom be used.
The Legislature would know that such a power existed, and would refrain
from such laws, as it would be sure to defeat. Its silent operation
would therefore preserve harmony and prevent mischief. The case of Pena.
formerly was very different from its present case. The Executive was not
then as now to be appointed by the people. It will not in this case as
in the one cited be supported by the head of a Great Empire, actuated by
a different & sometimes opposite interest. The salary too is now
proposed to be fixed by the Constitution, or if Dr. F.'s idea should be
adopted all salary whatever interdicted. The requiring a large
proportion of each House to overrule the Executive check might do in
peaceable times; but there might be tempestuous moments in which
animosities may run high between the Executive and Legislative branches,
and in which the former ought to be able to defend itself.

Mr. BUTLER had been in favor of a single Executive Magistrate; but could
he have entertained an idea that a compleat negative on the laws was to
be given him he certainly should have acted very differently. It had
been observed that in all countries the Executive power is in a constant
course of increase. This was certainly the case in G. B. Gentlemen
seemed to think that we had nothing to apprehend from an abuse of the
Executive power. But why might not a Cataline or a Cromwell arise in
this Country as well as in others.

Mr. BEDFORD was opposed to every check on the Legislative, [11] even the
Council of Revision first proposed. He thought it would be sufficient to
mark out in the Constitution the boundaries to the Legislative
Authority, which would give all the requisite security to the rights of
the other departments. The Representatives of the people were the best
Judges of what was for their interest, and ought to be under no external
controul whatever. The two branches would produce a sufficient controul
within the Legislature itself.

Col. MASON observed that a vote had already passed he found [he was out
at the time] for vesting the executive powers in a single person. Among
these powers was that of appointing to offices in certain cases. The
probable abuses of a negative had been well explained by Dr. F. as
proved by experience, the best of all tests. Will not the same door be
opened here. The Executive may refuse its assent to necessary measures
till new appointments shall be referred to him; and having by degrees
engrossed all these into his own hands, the American Executive, like the
British, will by bribery & influence, save himself the trouble & odium
of exerting his negative afterwards. We are Mr. Chairman going very far
in this business. We are not indeed constituting a British Government,
but a more dangerous monarchy, an elective one. We are introducing a new
principle into our system, and not necessary as in the British Govt.
where the Executive has greater rights to defend. Do gentlemen mean to
pave the way to hereditary Monarchy? Do they flatter themselves that the
people will ever consent to such an innovation? If they do I venture to
tell them, they are mistaken. The people never will consent. And do
gentlemen consider the danger of delay, and the still greater danger of
a a rejection, not for a moment but forever, of the plan which shall be
proposed to them. Notwithstanding the oppressions & injustice
experienced among us from democracy; the genius of the people is in
favor of it, and the genius of the people must be consulted. He could
not but consider the federal system as in effect dissolved by the
appointment of this Convention to devise a better one. And do gentlemen
look forward to the dangerous interval between the extinction of an old,
and the establishment of a new Governmt. and to the scenes of confusion
which may ensue. He hoped that nothing like a Monarchy would ever be
attempted in this Country. A hatred to its oppressions had carried the
people through the late Revolution. Will it not be eno' to enable the
Executive to suspend offensive laws, till they shall be coolly revised,
and the objections to them overruled by a greater majority than was
required in the first instance. He never could agree to give up all the
rights of the people to a single Magistrate. If more than one had been
fixed on, greater powers might have been entrusted to the Executive. He
hoped this attempt to give such powers would have its weight hereafter
as an argument for increasing the number of the Executive.

DOCr. FRANKLIN. A Gentleman from S. C. [Mr. Butler] a day or two ago
called our attention to the case of the U. Netherlands. He wished the
gentleman had been a little fuller, and had gone back to the original of
that Govt. The people being under great obligations to the Prince of
Orange whose wisdom and bravery had saved them, chose him for the
Stadtholder. He did very well. Inconveniences however were felt from his
powers; which growing more & more oppressive, they were at length set
aside. Still however there was a party for the P. of Orange, which
descended to his son who excited insurrections, spilt a great deal of
blood, murdered the de Witts, and got the powers revested in the
Stadtholder. Afterwards another Prince had power to excite insurrections
& to [12] make the Stadtholdership hereditary. And the present Stadthder.
is ready to wade thro a bloody civil war to the establishment of a
monarchy. Col. Mason had mentioned the circumstance of appointing
officers. He knew how that point would be managed. No new appointment
would be suffered as heretofore in Pensa. unless it be referred to the
Executive; so that all profitable offices will be at his disposal. The
first man put at the helm will be a good one. No body knows what sort
may come afterwards. The Executive will be always increasing here, as
elsewhere, till it ends in a Monarchy.

On the question for striking out so as to give [13] Executive an
absolute negative -- Massts. no. Cont. no. N. Y. no. Pa. no. Dl. no. Md.
no. Va. no. N. C. no. S. C. no. Georga. no. [14]

Mr. BUTLER moved that the Resoln. be altered so as to read -- "Resolved
that the National Executive have a power to suspend any Legislative act
for the term of _____."

DOCtr. FRANKLIN seconds the motion.

Mr. GERRY observed that a [15] power of suspending might do all the
mischief dreaded from the negative of useful laws; without answering the
salutary purpose of checking unjust or unwise ones.

On [13] question for giving this suspending power" all the States, to wit
Massts. Cont. N. Y. Pa. Del. Maryd. Virga. N. C. S. C. Georgia were No.

On a question for enabling two thirds of each branch of the Legislature
to overrule the revisionary [16] check: it passed in the affirmative sub
silentio; and was inserted in the blank of Mr. Gerry's motion.

On the question on Mr. Gerry's motion which gave the Executive alone
without the Judiciary the revisionary controul on the laws unless
overruled by 2/3 of each branch; Massts. ay. Cont. no. N. Y. ay. Pa. ay.
Del. ay. Maryd. no. Va. ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [17]

It was moved by Mr. WILSON 2ded. by Mr. MADISON -- that the following
amendment be made to the last resolution -- after the words "National
Ex." to add "& a convenient number of the National Judiciary."

An objection of order being taken by Mr. HAMILTON to the introduction of
the last amendment at this time, notice was given by Mr. W. & Mr. M. --
that the same wd. be moved tomorrow, -- where-upon Wednesday (the day
after) [18] was assigned to reconsider the amendment of Mr. Gerry.

It was then moved & 2ded. to proceed to the consideration of the 9th.
resolution submitted by Mr. Randolph -- when on motion to agree to the
first clause namely "Resolved that a National Judiciary be established"
[19] It passed in the affirmative nem. con. It was then moved & 2ded. to
add these words to the first clause of the ninth resolution namely --
"to consist of one supreme tribunal, and of one or more inferior
tribunals," which passed in the affirmative -- 

The Comme. then rose and the House

Adjourned.

___________

1. The year "1787" is here inserted in the transcript.

2. The transcript inserts the word "Mr." before "Wilson."

3. The word "was" is changed to "were" in the transcript.

4. The word "the" is omitted in the transcript.

5. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut,
Pennsylvania, Virginia, (Mr. Randolph and Mr. Blair, no; Doctor McClurg,
Mr. Madison, and General Washington, aye; Colonel Mason being no, but
not in the House, Mr. Wythe, aye, but gone home), North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- ; New York, Delaware, Maryland, no -- 3."

6. The phrase "the eighth Resolution" is substituted in the transcript
for "Proposition 8th."

7. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, New York,
Pennsylvania, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 6;
Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, no -- 4."

8. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

9. The word "unless" is crossed out in the transcript.

10. In the transcript the syllable "ten" is stricken from the word
"gotten."

11. In the transcript the syllable "tive" is stricken from the word
"Legislative" and "ture" is written above it.

12. The word "to" is omitted in the transcript.

13. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

14. In the transcript the vote reads "Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
York, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, no -- 10."

15. The word "the" is substituted in the transcript for "a."

16. In the transcript the word "provisionary" was erroneously used in
place of "revisionary."

17. In the transcript this vote reads: "Massachusetts, New York,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina,
Georgia, aye -- 8; Connecticut, Maryland, no -- 2."

18. The phrase "(the day after)" is crossed out in the transcript.

19. The phrase "Resolved that a National Judiciary be established" is
italicized in the transcript.


