WEDNESDAY  MAY 30

Roger Sherman (from Connecticut) took his seat.

The House went into Committee of the Whole on the State of the Union.
Mr. Gorham was elected to the Chair by Ballot.

The propositions of Mr. RANDOLPH which had been referred to the
Committee being taken up. He moved on the suggestion of Mr. G. Morris,
that the first of his propositions to wit "Resolved that the articles of
Confederation ought to be so corrected & enlarged, as to accomplish the
objects proposed by their institution; namely, common defence, security
of liberty & general welfare: [1] -- should be postponed, in order to
consider the 3 following:

1. that a Union of the States merely federal will not accomplish the
objects proposed by the articles of Confederation, namely common
defence, security of liberty, & genl. welfare.

2. that no treaty or treaties among the whole or part of the States, as
individual Sovereignties, would be sufficient.

3. that a national Government ought to be established consisting of a
supreme Legislative, Executive & Judiciary. The motion for postponing
was seconded by Mr. GOVr. MORRIS and unanimously agreed to.

Some verbal criticisms were raised agst. the first proposition, and it
was agreed on motion of Mr. BUTLER seconded by Mr. RANDOLPH, to pass on
to the third, which underwent a discussion, less however on its general
merits than on the force and extent of the particular terms national &
supreme.

Mr. CHARLES PINKNEY wished to know of Mr. Randolph whether he meant to
abolish the State Governts. altogether. Mr. R. replied that he meant by
these general propositions merely to introduce the particular ones which
explained the outlines of the system he had in view.

Mr. BUTLER said he had not made up his mind on the subject, and was open
to the light which discussion might throw on it. After some general
observations he concluded with saying that he had opposed the grant of
powers to Congs. heretofore, because the whole power was vested in one
body. The proposed distribution of the powers into [2] different bodies
changed the case, and would induce him to go great lengths.

Genl. PINKNEY expressed a doubt whether the act of Congs. recommending
the Convention, or the Commissions of the Deputies to it, could [3]
authorise a discussion of a System founded on different principles from
the federal Constitution.

Mr. GERRY seemed to entertain the same doubt.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS explained the distinction between a federal and
national, supreme, Govt.; the former being a mere compact resting on the
good faith of the parties; the latter having a compleat and compulsive
operation. He contended that in all Communities there must be one
supreme power, and one only. 

Mr. MASON observed that the present confederation was not only 4
deficient in not providing for coercion & punishment agst. delinquent
States; but argued very cogently that punishment could not in the nature
of things be executed on the States collectively, and therefore that
such a Govt. was necessary as could directly operate on individuals, and
would punish those only whose guilt required it.

Mr. SHERMAN who took his seat today, [5] admitted that the Confederation
had not given sufficient power to Congs. and that additional powers were
necessary; particularly that of raising money which he said would
involve many other powers. He admitted also that the General &
particular jurisdictions ought in no case to be concurrent. He seemed
however not [6] be disposed to make too great inroads on the existing
system; intimating as one reason that it would be wrong to lose every
amendment, by inserting such as would not be agreed to by the States.

It was moved by Mr. READ [7] 2ded. by Mr. Chs. COTESWORTH PINKNEY, to
postpone the 3d. proposition last offered by Mr. Randolph viz that a
national Government ought to be established consisting of a supreme
Legislative Executive and Judiciary," in order to take up the following
-- viz. "Resolved that in order to carry into execution the Design of
the States in forming this Convention, and to accomplish the objects
proposed by the Confederation a more effective Government consisting of
a Legislative, Executive and Judiciary ought to be established."

The motion to postpone for this purpose was lost:

Yeas [8] Massachusetts, Connecticut, Delaware, S. Carolina -- [8] 4
Nays. [9] N. Y. Pennsylvania, Virginia, North Carolina -- [9] 4.

On the question as moved by Mr. Butler, on the third proposition it was
resolved in Committee of the whole that a national governt. ought to be
established consisting of a supreme Legislative Executive & Judiciary."
Massts. being ay -- Connect. -- no. N. York divided [Col. Hamilton ay
Mr. Yates no] Pena. ay. Delaware ay. Virga. ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. [10]

Resol: 2. of Mr. R's proposition to wit -- see May 29. [11] The
following Resolution being the 2d. of those proposed by Mr. Randolph was
taken up, viz -- "that the rights of suffrage in the National
Legislature ought to be proportioned to the quotas of contribution, or
to the number of free inhabitants, as the one or the other rule may seem
best in different cases." [12]

Mr. MADISON observing that the words "or to the number of free
inhabitants," might occasion debates which would divert the Committee
from the general question whether the principle of representation should
be changed, moved that they might be struck out.

Mr. KING observed that the quotas of contribution which would alone
remain as the measure of representation, would not answer, because
waving every other view of the matter, the revenue might hereafter be so
collected by the general Govt. that the sums respectively drawn from the
States would not appear; and would besides be continually varying.

Mr. MADISON admitted the propriety of the observation, and that some
better rule ought to be found.

Col. HAMILTON moved to alter the resolution so as to read "that the
rights of suffrage in the national Legislature ought to be proportioned
to the number of free inhabitants. Mr. SPAIGHT 2ded. the motion.

It was then moved that the Resolution be postponed, which was agreed to.

Mr. RANDOLPH and Mr. MADISON then moved the following resolution --
"that the rights of suffrage in the national Legislature ought to be
proportioned." It was moved and 2ded. to amend it by adding "and not
according to the present system" -- which was agreed to. It was then
moved and 2ded. to alter the resolution so as to read "that the rights
of suffrage in the national Legislature ought not to be according to the
present system." It was then moved & 2ded. to postpone the Resolution
moved by Mr. Randolph & Mr. Madison, which being agreed to:

Mr. MADISON, moved, in order to get over the difficulties, the following
resolution -- "that the equality of suffrage established by the articles
of Confederation ought not to prevail in the national Legislature, and
that an equitable ratio of representation ought to be substituted." This
was 2ded. by Mr. GOVr. MORRIS, and being generally relished, would have
been agreed to; when,

Mr. REED moved that the whole clause relating to the point of
Representation be postponed; reminding the Come. that the deputies from
Delaware were restrained by their commission from assenting to any
change of the rule of suffrage, and in case such a change should be
fixed on, it might become their duty to retire from the Convention.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS observed that the valuable assistance of those members
could not be lost without real concern, and that so early a proof of
discord in the Convention as a secession of a State, would add much to
the regret; that the change proposed was however so fundamental an
article in a national Govt. that it could not be dispensed with.

Mr. MADISON observed that whatever reason might have existed for the
equality of suffrage when the Union was a federal one among sovereign
States, it must cease when a national Govermt. should be put into the
place. In the former case, the acts of Congs. depended so much for their
efficacy on the cooperation of the States, that these had a weight both
within & without Congress, nearly in proportion to their extent and
importance. In the latter case, as the acts of the Genl. Govt. would
take effect without the intervention of the State legislatures, a vote
from a small State wd. have the same efficacy & importance as a vote
from a large one, and there was the same reason for different numbers of
representatives from different States, as from Counties of different
extents within particular States. He suggested as an expedient for at
once taking the sense of the members on this point and saving the
Delaware deputies from embarrassment, that the question should be taken
in Committee, and the clause on report to the House be postponed without
a question there. This however did not appear to satisfy Mr. Read. By
several it was observed that no just construction of the Act of
Delaware, could require or justify a secession of her deputies, even if
the resolution were to be carried thro' the House as well as the
Committee. It was finally agreed however that the clause should be
postponed: it being understood that in the event the proposed change of
representation would certainly be agreed to, no objection or difficulty
being started from any other quarter than from Delaware.

The motion of Mr. Read to postpone being agreed to,

The Committee then rose. The Chairman reported progress, and the House
having resolved to resume the subject in Committee tomorrow,

Adjourned to 10 OClock.

___________

1. The resolution is italicized in the transcript.

2. The word "with" is substituted in the transcript for "into."

3. The word "would" is substituted in the transcript for "could."

4. The words "not only" are transposed in the transcript, which reads as
follows: "Mr. Mason observed, not only that the present Confederation
was deficient," ...

5. The phrase "who took his seat today" is omitted in the transcript.

6. The word "to" is here inserted in the transcript.

7. The word "and" is here inserted in the transcript.

8. The word "Yeas" is omitted in the transcript and the word "aye"
inserted before the figure "4."

9. The word "Nays" is omitted in the transcript and word "no" inserted
before the figure "4."

10. In the transcript the vote reads: Massachusetts, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina aye -- 6;
Connecticut, no -- 1; New York, divided (Colonel Hamilton, aye, Mr.
Yates, No)." [Note E] [11]

11. Madison's direction is omitted in the transcript. 

12. The resolution is italicized in the transcript.


