TUESDAY  JULY 25.   IN CONVENTION

[1] Clause relating to the Executive [2] again under consideration.

Mr. ELSEWORTH moved "that the Executive be appointed by the
Legislature," except when the magistrate last chosen shall have
continued in office the whole term for which he was chosen, & be
reeligible, in which case the choice shall be by Electors appointed by
the Legislatures of the States for that purpose." By this means a
deserving magistrate may be reelected without making him dependent on
the Legislature. [3]

Mr. GERRY repeated his remark that an election at all by the Natl.
Legislature was radically and incurably wrong; and moved that the
Executive be appointed by the Governours & Presidents of the States,
with advice of their Councils, and where there are no Councils by
Electors chosen by the Legislatures. The executives to vote in the
following proportions: viz --

Mr. MADISON. There are objections agst. every mode that has been, or
perhaps can be proposed. The election must be made either by some
existing authority under the Natil. or State Constitutions -- or by some
special authority derived from the people -- or by the people
themselves. -- The two Existing authorities under the Natl. Constitution
wd. be the Legislative & Judiciary. The latter he presumed was out of
the question. The former was in his Judgment liable to insuperable
objections. Besides the general influence of that mode on the
independence of the Executive, 1. [4] the election of the Chief
Magistrate would agitate & divide the legislature so much that the
public interest would materially suffer by it. Public bodies are always
apt to be thrown into contentions, but into more violent ones by such
occasions than by any others. 2. [5] the candidate would intrigue with
the Legislature, would derive his appointment from the predominant
faction, and be apt to render his administration subservient to its
views. 3. [6] The Ministers of foreign powers would have and [7] make
use of, the opportunity to mix their intrigues & influence with the
Election. Limited as the powers of the Executive are, it will be an
object of great moment with the great rival powers of Europe who have
American possessions, to have at the head of our Governmt. a man
attached to their respective politics & interests. No pains, nor perhaps
expense, will be spared, to gain from the Legislature an appointmt.
favorable to their wishes. Germany & Poland are witnesses of this
danger. In the former, the election of the Head of the Empire, till it
became in a manner hereditary, interested all Europe, and was much
influenced by foreign interference. In the latter, altho' the elective
Magistrate has very little real power, his election has at all times
produced the most eager interference of forign princes, and has in fact
at length slid entirely into foreign hands. The existing authorities in
the States are the Legislative, Executive & Judiciary. The appointment
of the Natl. Executive by the first, was objectionable in many points of
view, some of which had been already mentioned. He would mention one
which of itself would decide his opinion. The Legislatures of the States
had betrayed a strong propensity to a variety of pernicious measures.
One object of the Natl. Legislre. was to controul this propensity. One
object of the Natl. Executive, so far as it would have a negative on the
laws, was to controul the Natl. Legislature, so far as it might be
infected with a similar propensity. Refer the appointmt. of the Natl.
Executive to the State Legislatures, and this controuling purpose may be
defeated. The Legislatures can & will act with some kind of regular
plan, and will promote the appointmt. of a man who will not oppose
himself to a favorite object. Should a majority of the Legislatures at
the time of election have the same object, or different objects of the
same kind, The Natl. Executive would be rendered subservient to them. --
An appointment by the State Executives, was liable among other
objections to this insuperable one, that being standing bodies, they
could & would be courted, and intrigued with by the Candidates, by their
partizans, and by the Ministers of foreign powers. The State Judiciarys
had not [8] & he presumed wd. not be proposed as a proper source of
appointment. The option before us then lay between an appointment by
Electors chosen by the people -- and an immediate appointment by the
people. He thought the former mode free from many of the objections
which had been urged agst. it, and greatly preferable to an appointment
by the Natl. Legislature. As the electors would be chosen for the
occasion, would meet at once, & proceed immediately to an appointment,
there would be very little opportunity for cabal, or corruption. As a
farther precaution, it might be required that they should meet at some
place, distinct from the seat of Govt. and even that no person within a
certain distance of the place at the time shd. be eligible. This Mode
however had been rejected so recently & by so great a majority that it
probably would not be proposed anew. The remaining mode was an election
by the people or rather by the qualified part of them, at large: With
all its imperfections he liked this best. He would not repeat either the
general argumts. for or the objections agst. this mode. He would only
take notice of two difficulties which he admitted to have weight. The
first arose from the disposition in the people to prefer a Citizen of
their own State, and the disadvantage this wd. throw on the smaller
States. Great as this objection might be he did not think it equal to
such as lay agst. every other mode which had been proposed. He thought
too that some expedient might be hit upon that would obviate it. The
second difficulty arose from the disproportion of qualified voters in
the N. & S. States, and the disadvantages which this mode would throw on
the latter. The answer to this objection was 1. [9] that this
disproportion would be continually decreasing under the influence of the
Republican laws introduced in the S. States, and the more rapid increase
of their population. 2. [10] That local considerations must give way to
the general interest. As an individual from the S. States he was willing
to make the sacrifice.

Mr. ELSEWORTH. The objection drawn from the different sizes of the
States, is unanswerable. The Citizens of the largest States would
invariably prefer the Candidate within the State; and the largest States
wd. invariably have the man.

[11] Question on Mr. Elseworth's motion as above.

N. H. ay. Mas. no. Ct ay. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. no. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [12]

Mr. PINKNEY moved that the election by the Legislature be qualified with
a proviso that no person be eligible for more than 6 years in any twelve
years. He thought this would have all the advantage & at the same time
avoid in some degree the inconveniency, [13] of an absolute
ineligibility a 2d. time.

Col. MASON approved the idea. It had the sanction of experience in the
instance of Congs. and some of the Executives of the States. It rendered
the Executive as effectually independent, as an ineligibility after his
first election, and opened the way at the same time for the advantage of
his future services. He preferred on the whole the election by the Nati.
Legislature: Tho' Candor obliged him to admit, that there was great
danger of foreign influence, as had been suggested. This was the most
serious objection with him that had been urged.

Mr. BUTLER. The two great evils to be avoided are cabal at home, &
influence from abroad. It will be difficult to avoid either if the
Election be made by the Natl. Legislature. On the other hand: The Govt.
should not be made so complex & unwieldy as to disgust the States. This
would be the case, if the election shd. be referred to the people. He
liked best an election by Electors chosen by the Legislatures of the
States. He was agst. are -- eligibility at all events. He was also agst.
a ratio of votes in the States. An equality should prevail in this case.
The reasons for departing from it do not hold in the case of the
Executive as in that of the Legislature.

Mr. GERRY approved of Mr. Pinkney's motion as lessening the evil.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS was agst. a rotation in every case. It formed a
political School, in wch we were always governed by the scholars, and
not by the Masters. The evils to be guarded agst. in this case are 1.
[14] the undue influence of the Legislature. 2. [14] instability of
Councils. 3. [14] misconduct in office. To guard agst. the first, we run
into the second evil. We adopt a rotation which produces instability of
Councils. To avoid Sylla we fall into Charibdis. A change of men is ever
followed by a change of measures. We see this fully exemplified in the
vicissitudes among ourselves, particularly in the State of Pena. The
self-sufficiency of a victorious party scorns to tread in the paths of
their predecessors. Rehoboam will not imitate Soloman. 2. [15] the
Rotation in office will not prevent intrigue and dependence on the
Legislature. The man in office will look forward to the period at which
he will become re-eligible. The distance of the period, the
improbability of such a protraction of his life will be no obstacle.
Such is the nature of man, formed by his benevolent author no doubt for
wise ends, that altho' he knows his existence to be limited to a span,
he takes his measures as if he were to live for ever. But taking another
supposition, the inefficacy of the expedient will be manifest. If the
magistrate does not look forward to his re-election to the Executive, he
will be pretty sure to keep in view the opportunity of his going into
the Legislature itself. He will have little objection then to an
extension of power on a theatre where he expects to act a distinguished
part; and will be very unwilling to take any step that may endanger his
popularity with the Legislature, on his influence over which the figure
he is to make will depend. 3. [16] To avoid the third evil, impeachments
will be essential, and hence an additional reason agst. an election by
the Legislature. He considered an election by the people as the best, by
the Legislature as the worst, mode. Putting both these aside, he could
not but favor the idea of Mr. Wilson, of introducing a mixture of lot.
It will diminish, if not destroy both cabal & dependence.

Mr. WILLIAMSON was sensible that strong objections lay agst. an election
of the Executive by the Legislature, and that it opened a door for
foreign influence. The principal objection agst. an election by the
people seemed to be, the disadvantage under which it would place the
smaller States. He suggested as a cure for this difficulty, that each
man should vote for 3 candidates, One of these [17] he observed would be
probably of his own State, the other 2. of some other States; and as
probably of a small as a large one.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS liked the idea, suggesting as an amendment that each
man should vote for two persons one of whom at least should not be of
his own State.

Mr. MADISON also thought something valuable might be made of the
suggestion with the proposed amendment of it. The second best man in
this case would probably be the first, in fact. The only objection which
occurred was that each Citizen after havg. given his vote for his
favorite fellow Citizen, wd. throw away his second on some obscure
Citizen of another State, in order to ensure the object of his first
choice. But it could hardly be supposed that the Citizens of many States
would be so sanguine of having their favorite elected, as not to give
their second vote with sincerity to the next object of their choice. It
might moreover be provided in favor of the smaller States that the
Executive should not be eligible more than times in years from the same
State.

Mr. GERRY. A popular election in this case is radically vicious. The
ignorance of the people would put it in the power of some one set of men
dispersed through the Union & acting in Concert to delude them into any
appointment. He observed that such a Society of men existed in the Order
of the Cincinnati. They are respectable, United, and influencial. They
will in fact elect the chief Magistrate in every instance, if the
election be referred to the people. His respect for the characters
composing this Society could not blind him to the danger & impropriety
of throwing such a power into their hands.

Mr. DICKENSON. As far as he could judge from the discussions which had
taken place during his attendance, insuperable objections lay agst. an
election of the Executive by the Natl. Legislature; as also by the
Legislatures or Executives of the States. He had long leaned towards an
election by the people which he regarded as the best & purest source.
Objections he was aware lay agst. this mode, but not so great he thought
as agst. the other modes. The greatest difficulty in the opinion of the
House seemed to arise from the partiality of the States to their
respective Citizens. But, might not this very partiality be turned to a
useful purpose. Let the people of each State chuse its best Citizen. The
people will know the most eminent characters of their own States, and
the people of different States will feel an emulation in selecting those
of which [18] they will have the greatest reason to be proud. Out of the
thirteen names thus selected, an Executive Magistrate may be chosen
either by the Natl. Legislature, or by Electors appointed by it.

On a Question which was moved for postponing Mr. Pinkney's motion; in
order to make way for some such proposition as had been hinted by Mr.
Williamson & others: it passed in the negative.

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [19]

On Mr. Pinkney's motion that no person shall serve in the Executive more
than 6 years in 12. years, it passed in the negative.

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no. N.
C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [20]

On a motion that the members of the Committee be furnished with copies
of the proceedings it was so determined; S. Carolina alone being in the
negative.

It was then moved that the members of the House might take copies of the
Resolions which had been agreed to; which passed in the negative. N. H.
no. Mas. no. Con: ay. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. ay. Maryd. no. Va. ay. N.
C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. no. [21]

Mr. GERRY & Mr. BUTLER moved to refer the resolution relating to the
Executive (except the clause making it consist of a single person) to
the Committee of detail.

Mr. WILSON hoped that so important a branch of the System wd. not be
committed untill a general principle shd. be fixed by a vote of the
House.

Mr. LANGDON, was for the Commitment -- Adjd.

___________

1. The word "The" is here inserted in the transcript.

2. The word "being" is here inserted in the transcript.

3. The transcript italicizes the phrase "making him dependent on the
Legislature."

4. The figure "1" is changed to "In the first place" in the transcript.

5. The figure "2" is changed to "In the second place" in the transcript.

6. The figure "3" is changed to "In the third place" in the transcript.

7. The word "would" is here inserted in the transcript.

8. The word "been" is here inserted in the transcript.

9. The figure "1" is changed to "in the first place" in the transcript.

10. The figure "2" is changed to "in the second place" in the transcript.

11. The words "On the" are here inserted in the transcript.

12. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Connecticut,
Pennsylvania, Maryland, aye -- 4: Massachusetts, New Jersey, Delaware,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 7."

13. The word "inconveniency" is changed to "inconvenience" in the
transcript.

14. The figures "1," "2" and "3" are changed to "first," "secondly" and
"thirdly" in the transcript.

15. The figure "2" is changed to "Secondly" in the transcript.

16. The figure "3" is changed to "Finally" in the transcript.

17. The word "them" is substituted in the transcript for "these."

18. The word "whom" is substituted in the transcript for "which."

19 In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, aye -- 5; New Hampshire,
Massachusetts, Delaware, North Carolina, South Carolina, South Carolina,
Georgia, no -- 6."

20. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 5; Connecticut, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, no -- 6."

21. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New Jersey,
Delaware, Virginia, North Carolina, aye -- 5; New Hampshire,
Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Maryland, South Carolina, Georgia, no --
6."


