TEUSDAY  JUNE 5.   IN COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE

GOVERNOR Livingston from [1] New Jersey, took his seat.

The words, "one or more" were struck out before "inferior tribunals" as
an amendment to the last clause of Resoln. 9th [2] The Clause -- "that
the National Judiciary be chose by the National Legislature," being
under consideration.

Mr. WILSON opposed the appointmt. of Judges by the National Legisl:
Experience shewed the impropriety of such appointmts. by numerous
bodies. Intrigue, partiality, and concealment were the necessary
consequences. A principal reason for unity in the executive was that
officers might be appointed by a single, responsible person.

Mr. RUTLIDGE was by no means disposed to grant so great a power to any
single person. The people will think we are leaning too much towards
Monarchy. He was against establishing any national tribunal except a
single supreme one. The State tribunals are most proper to decide in all
cases in the first instance.

DOCr. FRANKLIN observed that two modes of chusing the Judges had been
mentioned, to wit, by the Legislature and by the Executive. He wished
such other modes to be suggested as might occur to other gentlemen; it
being a point of great moment. He would mention one which he had
understood was practiced in Scotland. He then in a brief and
entertaining manner related a Scotch mode, in which the nomination
proceeded from the Lawyers, who always selected the ablest of the
profession in order to get rid of him, and share his practice among
themselves. It was here he said the interest of the electors to make the
best choice, which should always be made the case if possible.

Mr. MADISON disliked the election of the Judges by the Legislature or
any numerous body. Besides, the danger of intrigue and partiality, many
of the members were not judges of the requisite qualifications. The
Legislative talents which were very different from those of a Judge,
commonly recommended men to the favor of Legislative Assemblies. It was
known too that the accidental circumstances of presence and absence, of
being a member or not a member, had a very undue influence on the
appointment. On the other hand he was not satisfied with referring the
appointment to the Executive. He rather inclined to give it to the
Senatorial branch, as numerous eno' to be confided in -- as not so
numerous as to be governed by the motives of the other branch; and as
being sufficiently stable and independent to follow their deliberate
judgments. He hinted this only and moved that the appointment by the
Legislature might be struck out, & a blank left to be hereafter filled
on maturer reflection.

Mr. WILSON seconds it.

On the question for striking out. Massts. ay. Cont. no. N.Y. ay. N.J.
ay. Pena.ay. Del. Ay. Md. ay. N.C. ay. S.C.no. Geo.ay. [3]

Mr. WILSON gave notice that he should at a future day move for a
reconsideration of the clause which respects "inferior tribunals."

Mr. PINKNEY gave notice that when the clause respecting the appointment
of the Judiciary should again come before the Committee he should move
to restore the "appointment by the national Legislature."

The following clauses of Resol: 9. [4] were agreed to viz "to hold their
offices during good behaviour, and to receive punctually at stated
times, a fixed compensation for their services, in which no increase or
diminution shall be made so as to affect the persons actually in office
at the time of such increase or diminution."

The remaining clause of Resolution 9. [5] was posponed.

Resolution 10 [6] was agreed to-viz -- that provision ought to be made
for the admission of States lawfully arising within the limits of the U.
States, whether from a voluntary junction of Government & territory, or
otherwise, with the consent of a number of voices in the National
Legislature less than the whole.

The 11. propos: [7] "for guarantying to States Republican Govt. &
territory &c., being read, Mr. PATTERSON wished the point of
representation could be decided before this clause should be considered,
and moved to postpone it: which was not opposed, and agreed to:
Connecticut & S. Carolina only voting agst. it.

Propos. 12 [8] "for continuing Congs. till a given day and for
fulfilling their engagements," produced no debate.

On the question, Mass. ay. Cont. no. N. Y. ay. N. J. [*9] ay. Pa. ay.
Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. G. ay.

Propos: 13. [10] "that provision ought to be made for hereafter amending
the system now to be established, without requiring the assent of the
Natl. Legislature," being taken up,

Mr. PINKNEY doubted the propriety or necessity of it.

Mr. GERRY favored it. The novelty & difficulty of the experiment
requires periodical revision. The prospect of such a revision would also
give intermediate stability to the Govt. Nothing had yet happened in the
States where this provision existed to prove its impropriety.

The proposition was postponed for further consideration: the votes
being, Mas: Con. N. Y. Pa. Del. Ma. N. C. -- ay Virga. S. C. Geo: no

Propos. 14. [11] "requiring oath from the State officers to support
National Govt." was postponed after a short uninteresting conversation:
the votes, Con. N. Jersey. Md. Virga.: S. C. Geo. ay N. Y. Pa. Del. N.
C. -- no Massachusetts -- divided.

Propos. 15 [12] for "recommending Conventions under appointment of the
people to ratify the new Constitution" &c. being taken up.

Mr. SHARMAN thought such a popular ratification unnecessary: the
articles of Confederation providing for changes and alterations with the
assent of Congs. and ratification of State Legislatures.

Mr. MADISON thought this provision essential. The articles of Confedn.
themselves were defective in this respect, resting in many of the States
on the Legislative sanction only. Hence in conflicts between acts of the
States, and of Congs. especially where the former are of posterior date,
and the decision is to be made by State tribunals, an uncertainty must
necessarily prevail, or rather perhaps a certain decision in favor of
the State authority. He suggested also that as far as the articles of
Union were to be considered as a Treaty only of a particular sort, among
the Governments of Independent States, the doctrine might be set up that
a breach of any one article, by any of the parties, absolved the other
parties from the whole obligation. For these reasons as well as others
he thought it indispensable that the new Constitution should be ratified
in the most unexceptionable form, and by the supreme authority of the
people themselves.

Mr. GERRY observed that in the Eastern States the Confedn. had been
sanctioned by the people themselves. He seemed afraid of referring the
new system to them. The people in that quarter have at this time the
wildest ideas of Government in the world. They were for abolishing the
Senate in Massts. and giving all the other powers of Govt. to the other
branch of the Legislature.

Mr. KING supposed that the last article of ye Confedn. rendered the
legislature competent to the ratification. The people of the Southern
States where the federal articles had been ratified by the Legislatures
only, had since impliedly given their sanction to it. He thought
notwithstanding that there might be policy in varying the mode. A
Convention being a single house, the adoption may more easily be carried
thro' it, than thro' the Legislatures where there are several branches.
The Legislatures also being to lose power, will be most likely to raise
objections. The people having already parted with the necessary powers
it is immaterial to them, by which Government they are possessed,
provided they be well employed.

Mr. WILSON took this occasion to lead the Committee by a train of
observations to the idea of not suffering a disposition in the plurality
of States to confederate anew on better principles, to be defeated by
the inconsiderate or selfish opposition of a few States. He hoped the
provision for ratifying would be put on such a footing as to admit of
such a partial union, with a door open for the accession of the rest.
[*14]

Mr. PINKNEY hoped that in case the experiment should not unanimously
take place nine States might be authorized to unite under the same
Governt.

The propos. 15. [15] was postponed nem. cont

Mr. PINKNEY & Mr. RUTLIDGE moved that tomorrow be assigned to reconsider
that clause of Propos. 4: [16] which respects the election of the first
branch of the National Legislature -- which passed in [17] affirmative:
Con: N. Y. Pa. Del: d. Va. -- ay -- 6 Mas. N. J. N. C. S. C. Geo. no. 5.

Mr. RUTLIDGE havg. obtained a rule for reconsideration of the clause for
establishing inferior tribunals under the national authority, now moved
that that part of the clause in propos. 9. [18] should be expunged:
arguing that the State Tribunals might and ought to be left in all cases
to decide in the first instance the right of appeal to the supreme
national tribunal being sufficient to secure the national rights &
uniformity of Judgmts.: that it was making an unnecessary encroachment
on the jurisdiction of the States and creating unnecessary obstacles to
their adoption of the new system.

Mr. SHERMAN 2ded. the motion.

Mr. MADISON observed that unless inferior tribunals were dispersed
throughout the Republic with final jurisdiction in many cases, appeals
would be multiplied to a most oppressive degree; that besides, an appeal
would not in many cases be a remedy. What was to be done after improper
Verdicts in State tribunals obtained under the biassed directions of a
dependent Judge, or the local prejudices of an undirected jury? To
remand the cause for a new trial would answer no purpose. To order a new
trial at the Supreme bar would oblige the parties to bring up their
witnesses, tho' ever so distant from the seat of the Court. An effective
Judiciary establishment commensurate to the legislative authority, was
essential. A Government without a proper Executive & Judiciary would be
the mere trunk of a body, without arms or legs to act or move.

Mr. WILSON opposed the motion on like grounds. he said the admiralty
jurisdiction ought to be given wholly to the national Government, as it
related to cases not within the jurisdiction of particular states, & to
a scene in which controversies with foreigners would be most likely to
happen.

Mr. SHERMAN was in favor of the motion. He dwelt chiefly on the supposed
expensiveness of having a new set of Courts, when the existing State
Courts would answer the same purpose. Mr. DICKINSON contended strongly
that if there was to be a National Legislature, there ought to be a
national Judiciary, and that the former ought to have authority to
institute the latter. On the question for Mr. Rutlidge's motion to
strike out "inferior tribunals" [19]

Massts. divided. Cont. ay. N. Y. divd. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. no. Md.
no. Va. no. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [20]

Mr. WILSON & Mr. MADISON then moved, in pursuance of the idea expressed
above by Mr. Dickinson, to add to Resol: 9. [21] the words following
"that the National Legislature be empowered to institute inferior
tribunals." They observed that there was a distinction between
establishing such tribunals absolutely, and giving a discretion to the
Legislature to establish or not establish them. They repeated the
necessity of some such provision.

Mr. BUTLER. The people will not bear such innovations. The States will
revolt at such encroachments. Supposing such an establishment to be
useful, we must not venture on it. We must follow the example of Solon
who gave the Athenians not the best Govt. he could devise; but the best
they wd. receive.

Mr. KING remarked as to the comparative expence that the establishment
of inferior tribunals wd. cost infinitely less than the appeals that
would be prevented by them.

On this question as moved by Mr. W. & Mr. M. Mass. ay. Ct. no. N. Y.
divd. N. J. [*22] ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay. N. C. ay. S. C.
no. Geo. ay.

The Committee then rose & the House adjourned to 11 OC tomw. [23]

___________

1. The word "of" is substituted in the transcript for "from."

2. The phrase "the ninth Resolution" is used in the transcript in place
of "Resoln. 9th."

3. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, New York, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina,
South Carolina, no, Georgia, aye -- 9; Connecticut, South Carolina, --
2."

4. The transcript uses the phrase "the ninth Resolution" in place of
"Resol: 9," and italicizes the resolution.

5. The transcript here uses the phrase "the ninth Resolution."

6. The phrase "The tenth Resolution" is here used in the transcript.

7. In place of the words "The 11. propos:" the transcript reads: "The
eleventh Resolution."

8. The transcript changes "Propos. 12" to "The twelfth Resolution."

*9. New Jersey omitted in the printed Journal.

10. The transcript changes "Propos: 13" to read as follows: "The
thirteenth Resolution, to the effect."

11. The transcript changes "Propos. 14" to "The fourteenth Resolution."

12. The transcript changes "Propos. 15" to "The fifteenth Resolution."

*13. The note in brackets to be transferred to bottom margin. [14] [This
hint was probably meant in terrorem to the smaller States of N. Jersey &
Delaware. Nothing was said in reply to it.]

14. Madison's direction is omitted in the transcript.

15. The transcript changes "The propos. 15" to "the fifteenth
Resolution."

16. The transcript changes "Propos. 4" to "the fourth Resolution."

17. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

18. The transcript changes "propos. 9" to "the ninth Resolution."

19. The phrase "it passed in the affirmative" is here inserted in the
transcript.

20. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New York, New
Jersey, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 5; Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, no -- 4; Massachusetts, divided." New York
which was "divided" was erroneously placed among the "ayes" in copying,
although the number was correctly given as "5."

21. The transcript changes "Resol: 9" to "the ninth Resolution."

*22. In the printed Journal N. Jersey -- no.

23. The transcript omits the phrase "to 11 OC tomw."


