WEDNESDAY.  JULY 11.   IN CONVENTION

Mr. RANDOLPH's motion requiring the Legislre. to take a periodical
census for the purpose of redressing inequalities in the Representation,
was resumed.

Mr. SHERMAN was agst. shackling the Legislature too much. We ought to
choose wise & good men, and then confide in them.

Mr. MASON. The greater the difficulty we find in fixing a proper rule of
Representation, the more unwilling ought we to be, to throw the task
from ourselves, on the Genl. Legislre. He did not object to the
conjectural ratio which was to prevail in the outset; but considered a
Revision from time to time according to some permanent & precise
standard as essential to ye. fair representation required in the 1st.
branch. According to the present population of America, the Northn. part
of it had a right to preponderate, and he could not deny it. But he
wished it not to preponderate hereafter when the reason no longer
continued. From the nature of man we may be sure, that those who have
power in their hands will not give it up while they can retain it. On
the contrary we know they will always when they can rather increase it.
If the S. States therefore should have 3/4 of the people of America
within their limits, the Northern will hold fast the majority of
Representatives. 1/4 will govern the 3/4 . The S. States will complain:
but they may complain from generation to generation without redress.
Unless some principle therefore which will do justice to them hereafter
shall be inserted in the Constitution, disagreeable as the declaration
was to him, he must declare he could neither vote for the system here,
nor support it, in his State. Strong objections had been drawn from the
danger to the Atlantic interests from new Western States. Ought we to
sacrifice what we know to be right in itself, lest it should prove
favorable to States which are not yet in existence. If the Western
States are to be admitted into the Union, as they arise, they must, he
wd. repeat, be treated as equals, and subjected to no degrading
discriminations. They will have the same pride & other passions which we
have, and will either not unite with or will speedily revolt from the
Union, if they are not in all respects placed on an equal footing with
their brethren. It has been said they will be poor, and unable to make
equal contributions to the general Treasury. He did not know but that in
time they would be both more numerous & more wealthy than their Atlantic
brethren. The extent & fertility of their soil, made this probable; and
though Spain might for a time deprive them of the natural outlet for
their productions, yet she will, because she must, finally yield to
their demands. He urged that numbers of inhabitants; though not always a
precise standard of wealth was sufficiently so for every substantial
purpose.

Mr. WILLIAMSON was for making it the duty of the Legislature to do what
was right & not leaving it at liberty to do or not [1] do it. He moved
that Mr. Randolph's proposition be postpond. in order to consider the
following "that in order to ascertain the alterations that may happen in
the population & wealth of the several States, a census shall be taken
of the free white inhabitants and 3/5 ths. of those of other
descriptions on the 1st. year after this Government shall have been
adopted and every year thereafter; and that the Representation be
regulated accordingly."

Mr. RANDOLPH agreed that Mr. Williamson's proposition should stand in
the place of his. He observed that the ratio fixt for the 1st. meeting
was a mere conjecture, that it placed the power in the hands of that
part of America, which could not always be entitled to it, that this
power would not be voluntarily renounced; and that it was consequently
the duty of the Convention to secure its renunciation when justice might
so require; by some constitutional provisions. If equality between great
& small States be inadmissible, because in that case unequal numbers of
Constituents wd. be represented by equal number [2] of votes; was it not
equally inadmissible that a larger & more populous district of America
should hereafter have less representation, than a smaller & less
populous district. If a fair representation of the people be not
secured, the injustice of the Govt. will shake it to its foundations.
What relates to suffrage is justly stated by the celebrated Montesquieu,
as a fundamental article in Republican Govts. If the danger suggested by
Mr. Govr. Morris be real, of advantage being taken of the Legislature in
pressing moments, it was an additional reason, for tying their hands in
such a manner that they could not sacrifice their trust to momentary
considerations. Congs. have pledged the public faith to New States, that
they shall be admitted on equal terms. They never would nor ought to
accede on any other. The census must be taken under the direction of the
General Legislature. The States will be too much interested to take an
impartial one for themselves.

Mr. BUTLER & Genl. PINKNEY insisted that blacks be included in the rule
of Representation, equally with the Whites: and for that purpose moved
that the words "three fifths" be struck out.

Mr. GERRY thought that 3/5 of them was to say the least the full
proportion that could be admitted.

Mr. GHORUM. This ratio was fixed by Congs. as a rule of taxation. Then
it was urged by the Delegates representing the States having slaves that
the blacks were still more inferior to freemen. At present when the
ratio of representation is to be established, we are assured that they
are equal to freemen. The arguments on ye. former occasion had convinced
him that 3/5 was pretty near the just proportion and he should vote
according to the same opinion now.

Mr. BUTLER insisted that the labour of a slave in S. Carola. was as
productive & valuable as that of a freeman in Massts., that as wealth
was the great means of defence and utility to the Nation they were
equally valuable to it with freemen; and that consequently an equal
representation ought to be allowed for them in a Government which was
instituted principally for the protection of property, and was itself to
be supported by property. 

Mr. MASON, could not agree to the motion, notwithstand it was favorable
to Virga. because he thought it unjust. It was certain that the slaves
were valuable, as they raised the value of land, increased the exports &
imports, and of course the revenue, would supply the means of feeding &
supporting an army, and might in cases of emergency become themselves
soldiers. As in these important respects they were useful to the
community at large, they ought not to be excluded from the estimate of
Representation. He could not however regard them as equal to freemen and
could not vote for them as such. He added as worthy of remark, that the
Southern States have this peculiar species of property, over & above the
other species of property common to all the States.

Mr. WILLIAMSON reminded Mr. Ghorum that if the Southn. States contended
for the inferiority of blacks to whites when taxation was in view, the
Eastern States on the same occasion contended for their equality. He did
not however either then or now, concur in either extreme, but approved
of the ratio of 3/5.

On Mr. Butlers motion for considering blacks as equal to Whites in the
apportionmt. of Representation.

Massts. no. Cont. no. [N. Y. not on floor.] N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. ay.
Md. no. Va. no N. C. no. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [3]

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS said he had several objections to the proposition of
Mr. Williamson. 1. [4] It fettered the Legislature too much. 2. [5] it
would exclude some States altogether who would not have a sufficient
number to entitle them to a single Representative. 3. [6] it will not
consist with the Resolution passed on Saturday last authorising the
Legislature to adjust the Representation from time to time on the
principles or population & wealth or [7] with the principles of equity.
If slaves were to be considered as inhabitants, not as wealth, then the
sd.. Resolution would not be pursued. If as wealth, then why is no other
wealth but slaves included? These objections may perhaps be removed by
amendments. His great objection was that the number of inhabitants was
not a proper standard of wealth. The amazing difference between the
comparative numbers & wealth of different Countries, rendered all
reasoning superfluous on the subject. Numbers might with greater
propriety be deemed a measure of stregth, than of wealth, yet the late
defence made by G. Britain, agst. her numerous enemies proved in the
clearest manner, that it is entirely fallacious even in this respect.

Mr. KING thought there was great force in the objections of Mr. Govr.
Morris: he would however accede to the proposition for the sake of doing
something.

Mr. RUTLIDGE contended for the admission of wealth in the estimate by
which Representation should be regulated. The Western States will not be
able to contribute in proportion to their numbers; they shd. not
therefore be represented in that proportion. The Atlantic States will
not concur in such a plan. He moved that "at the end of years after the
1st. meeting of the Legislature, and of every years thereafter, the
Legislature shall proportion the Representation according to the
principles of wealth & population"

Mr. SHERMAN thought the number of people alone the best rule for
measuring wealth as well as representation; and that if the Legislature
were to be governed by wealth, they would be obliged to estimate it by
numbers. He was at first for leaving the matter wholly to the discretion
of the Legislature; but he had been convinced by the observations of
[Mr. Randolph & Mr. Mason,] that the periods & the rule, of revising the
Representation ought to be fixt by the Constitution.

Mr. REID thought the Legislature ought not to be too much shackled. It
would make the Constitution like Religious Creeds, embarrassing to those
bound to conform to them & more likely to produce dissatisfaction and
scism, than harmony and union.

Mr. MASON objected to Mr. Rutlidge motion, as requiring of the
Legislature something too indefinite & impracticable, and leaving them a
pretext for doing nothing.

Mr. WILSON had himself no objection to leaving the Legislature entirely
at liberty. But considered wealth as an impracticable rule.

Mr. GHORUM. If the Convention who are comparatively so little biassed by
local views are so much perplexed, How can it be expected that the
Legislature hereafter under the full biass of those views, will be able
to settle a standard. He was convinced by the arguments of others & his
own reflections, that the Convention ought to fix some standard or
other.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. The argts. of others & his own reflections had led him
to a very different conclusion. If we can't agree on a rule that will be
just at this time, how can we expect to find one that will be just in
all times to come. Surely those who come after us will judge better of
things present, than we can of things future. He could not persuade
himself that numbers would be a just rule at any time. The remarks of
[Mr. Mason] relative to the Western Country had not changed his opinion
on that head. Among other objections it must be apparent they would not
be able to furnish men equally enlightened, to share in the
administration of our common interests. The Busy haunts of men not the
remote wilderness, was the proper school of political Talents. If the
Western people get the power into their hands they will ruin the
Atlantic interests. The Back members are always most averse to the best
measures. He mentioned the case of Pena. formerly. The lower part of the
State had ye. power in the first instance. They kept it in yr. own hands
& the Country was ye. better for it. Another objection with him agst.
admitting the blacks into the census, was that the people of Pena would
revolt at the idea of being put on a footing with slaves. They would
reject any plan that was to have such an effect. Two objections had been
raised agst. leaving the adjustment of the Representation from time, to
time, to the discretion of the Legislature. The 1. [8] was they would be
unwilling to revise it at all. The 2. [8] that by referring to wealth
they would be bound by a rule which if willing, they would be unable to
execute. The 1st. objn. distrusts their fidelity. But if their duty,
their honor & their oaths will not bind them, let us not put into their
hands our liberty, and all our other great interests: let us have no
Govt. at all. 2 [9] If these ties will bind them, we need not distrust
the practicability of the rule. It was followed in part by the Come. in
the apportionment of Representatives yesterday reported to the House.
The best course that could be taken would be to leave the interests of
the people to the Representatives of the people.

Mr. MADISON, was not a little surprised to hear this implicit confidence
urged by a member who on all occasions, had inculcated so strongly, the
political depravity of men, and the necessity of checking one vice and
interest by opposing to them another vice & interest. If the
Representatives of the people would be bound by the ties he had
mentioned, what need was there of a Senate? What of a Revisionary power?
But his reasoning was not only inconsistent with his former reasoning,
but with itself. At the same time that he recommended this implicit
confidence to the Southern States in the Northern Majority, he was still
more zealous in exhorting all to a jealousy of [10] Western Majority. To
reconcile the gentln. with himself, it it must be imagined that he
determined the human character by the points of the compass. The truth
was that all men having power ought to be distrusted to a certain
degree. The case of Pena. had been mentioned where it was admitted that
those who were possessed of the power in the original settlement, never
admitted the new settlemts. to a due share of it. England was a still
more striking example. The power there had long been in the hands of the
boroughs, of the minority; who had opposed & defeated every reform which
had been attempted. Virga. was in a lesser [11] degree another example.
With regard to the Western States, he was clear & firm in opinion, that
no unfavorable distinctions were admissible either in point of justice
or policy. He thought also that the hope of contributions to the Treasy.
from them had been much underrated. Future contributions it seemed to be
understood on all hands would be principally levied on imports &
exports. The extent and and fertility of the Western Soil would for a
long time give to agriculture a preference over manufactures. Trials
would be repeated till some articles could be raised from it that would
bear a transportation to places where they could be exchanged for
imported manufactures. Whenever the Mississpi should be opened to them,
which would of necessity be ye. case, as soon as their population would
subject them to any considerable share of the public burdin, imposts on
their trade could be collected with less expence & greater certainty,
than on that of the Atlantic States. In the mean time, as their supplies
must pass thro' the Atlantic States, their contributions would be levied
in the same manner with those of the Atlantic States. -- He could not
agree that any substantial objection lay agst. fixig numbers for the
perpetual standard of Representation. It was said that Representation &
taxation were to go together; that taxation and wealth ought to go
together, that population & wealth were not measures of each other. He
admitted that in different climates, under different forms of Govt. and
in different stages of civilization the inference was perfectly just. He
would admit that in no situation, numbers of inhabitants were an
accurate measure of wealth. He contended however that in the U. States
it was sufficiently so for the object in contemplation. Altho' their
climate varied considerably, yet as the Govts. the laws, and the manners
of all were nearly the same, and the intercourse between different parts
perfectly free, population, industry, arts, and the value of labour,
would constantly tend to equalize themselves. The value of labour, might
be considered as the principal criterion of wealth and ability to
support taxes; and this would find its level in different places where
the intercourse should be easy & free, with as much certainty as the
value of money or any other thing. Wherever labour would yield most,
people would resort, till the competition should destroy the inequality.
Hence it is that the people are constantly swarming from the more to the
less populous places -- from Europe to Ama. from the Northn. & Middle
parts of the U. S. to the Southern & Western. They go where land is
cheaper, because there labour is dearer. If it be true that the same
quantity of produce raised on the banks of the Ohio is of less value,
than on the Delaware, it is also true that the same labor will raise
twice or thrice, the quantity in the former, that it will raise in the
latter situation.

Col. MASON. Agreed with Mr. Govr. Morris that we ought to leave the
interests of the people to the Representatives of the people: but the
objection was that the Legislature would cease to be the Representatives
of the people. It would continue so no longer than the States now
containing a majority of the people should retain that majority. As soon
as the Southern & Western population should predominate, which must
happen in a few years, the power wd. be in the hands of the minority,
and would never be yielded to the majority, unless provided for by the
Constitution

On the Question for postponing Mr. Williamson's motion, in order to
consider that of Mr. Rutlidge it passed in the negative.

Massts. ay. Cont. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. no. Va. no. N. C.
no. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [12]

On the question on the first clause of Mr. Williamson's motion as to
taking a census of the free inhabitants; it passed in the affirmative
Masts. ay. Cont. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. no. Va. ay. N. C.
ay. S. C. no. Geo. no. [13] the next clause as to 3/5 of the negroes
[14] considered.

Mr. KING. being much opposed to fixing numbers as the rule of
representation, was particularly so on account of the blacks. He thought
the admission of them along with Whites at all, would excite great
discontents among the States having no slaves. He had never said as to
any particular point that he would in no event acquiesce in & support
it; but he wd. say that if in any case such a declaration was to be made
by him, it would be in this. He remarked that in the temporary allotment
of Representatives made by the Committee, the Southern States had
received more than the number of their white & three fifths of their
black inhabitants entitled them to.

Mr. SHERMAN. S. Carola. had not more beyond her proportion than N. York
& N. Hampshire, nor either of them more than was necessary in order to
avoid fractions or reducing them below their proportion. Georgia had
more; but the rapid growth of that State seemed to justify it. In
general the allotment might not be just, but considering all
circumstances, he was satisfied with it.

Mr. GHORUM. supported the propriety of establishing numbers as the rule.
He said that in Massts. estimates had been taken in the different towns,
and that persons had been curious enough to compare these estimates with
the respective numbers of people; and it had been found even including
Boston, that the most exact proportion prevailed between numbers &
property. He was aware that there might be some weight in what had
fallen from his colleague, as to the umbrage which might be taken by the
people of the Eastern States. But he recollected that when the
proposition of Congs. for changing the 8th. art: of Confedn. was before
the Legislature of Massts. the only difficulty then was to satisfy them
that the negroes ought not to have been counted equally with [15] whites
instead of being counted in the ratio of three fifths only. [*16]

Mr. WILSON did not well see on what principle the admission of blacks in
the proportion of three fifths could be explained. Are they admitted as
Citizens? then why are they not admitted on an equality with White
Citizens? are they admitted as property? then why is not other property
admitted into the computation? These were difficulties however which he
thought must be overruled by the necessity of compromise. He had some
apprehensions also from the tendency of the blending of the blacks with
the whites, to give disgust to the people of Pena. as had been intimated
by his Colleague [Mr. Govr. Morris]. But he differed from him in
thinking numbers of inhabts. so incorrect a measure of wealth. He had
seen the Western settlemts. of Pa. and on a comparison of them with the
City of Philada. could discover little other difference, than that
property was more unequally divided among individuals [17] here than
there. Taking the same number in the aggregate in the two situations he
believed there would be little difference in their wealth and ability to
contribute to the public wants.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS was compelled to declare himself reduced to the dilemma
of doing injustice to the Southern States or to human nature, and he
must therefore do it to the former. For he could never agree to give
such encouragement to the slave trade as would be given by allowing them
a representation for their negroes, and he did not believe those States
would ever confederate on terms that would deprive them of that trade.

On [18] Question for agreeing to include 3/5 of the blacks Massts. no.
Cont. ay. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Mard. [*19] no. Va. ay. N. C. ay. S.
C. no. Geo. ay [21].

On the question as to taking [18] census "the first year after [18]
meeting of the Legislature"

Masts. ay. Cont. no. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. no. Va. ay. N. C.
ay. S. ay. Geo. no [22]

On filling the blank for the periodical census, with 15 years," Agreed
to nem. con.

Mr. MADISON moved to add after "15 years," the words "at least" that the
Legislature might anticipate when circumstances were likely to render a
particular year inconvenient.

On this motion for adding "at least," it passed in the negative the
States being equally divided.

Mas. ay. Cont. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. ay. N. C. ay.
S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [23]

A Change of [24] the phraseology of the other clause so as to read; "and
the Legislature shall alter or augment the representation accordingly"
was agreed to nem. con.

On the question on the whole resolution of Mr. Williamson as amended. 

Mas. no. Cont. no. N. J. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no. N. C. no. S. C.
no. Geo. no. [25, 26]

___________

1. The word "to" is here inserted in the transcript.

2. The transcript uses the word "number" in the plural.

3. In the transcript the vote reads: "Delaware, South Carolina, Georgia,
aye -- 3; Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, no -- 7; New York not on the floor."

4. The figure "1" is changed to "In the first place" in the transcript.

5. The figure "2" is changed to "In the second place" in the transcript.

6. The figure "3" is changed to "In the third place" in the transcript.

7. The word "or" is changed to "nor" in the transcript.

8. The figures "1" and "2" are changed to "first" and "second" in the
transcript.

9. The figure "2" is changed to "In the second place" in the transcript.

10. The word "a" is here inserted in the transcript.

11. The word "lesser" is changed to "less" in the transcript.

12. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 5; Connecticut, New Jersey,
Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, no -- 5."

13. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Virginia, North Carolina, aye -- 6; Delaware,
Maryland, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 4."

14. The word "being" is here inserted in the transcript.

15. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

*16. They were then to have been a rule of taxation only.

17. The words "among individuals" are omitted in the transcript.

18. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

*19. [Mr Carrol Sd.. in explanation of the vote of Md. that he wished the
phraseology [20] to be so altered as to obviate if possible the danger
which had been expressed of giving umbrage to the Eastern & Middle
States.]

20. The transcript italicizes the word "phraseology."

21. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, Virginia, North
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 4; Massachusetts, New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, [19] South Carolina, no -- 6."

22. In the transcript the note reads: "Massachusetts, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, aye --
7; Connecticut, Maryland, Georgia, no -- 3."

23. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 5; Connecticut, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, no -- 5."

24. The word "in" is substituted in the transcript for "of."

25. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina,
Georgia, no -- 9; so it was rejected unanimously."

26. The word "Adjourned" is here inserted in the transcript.


