SATURDAY  JUNE 23.   IN CONVENTION

The 3. Resol: resumed. [1]

On [2] Question yesterday postponed by S. Carol: for agreeing to the
whole sentence "for allowing an adequate compensation to be paid out of
the Treasury of the U. States"

Masts. ay. Cont. no. N. Y. no. N. J. ay. Pena. ay Del. no. Md. ay. Va.
ay. N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo divided. [3] So the question was lost, & the
sentence not inserted:

Genl. PINKNEY moves to strike out the ineligibility of members of the
1st. branch to offices established "by a particular State." He argued
from the inconveniency [4] to which such a restriction would expose both
the members of the 1st. branch, and the States wishing for their
services; [5] from the smallness of the object to be attained by the
restriction.

It wd. seem from the ideas of some that we are erecting a Kingdom to be
divided agst. itself, he disapproved such a fetter on the Legislature.

Mr. SHERMAN seconds the motion. It wd. seem that we are erecting a
Kingdom at war with itself. The Legislature ought not to [6] fettered in
such a case. on the question

Masts. no. Cont. ay. N. Y. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. ay. Va.
ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [7]

Mr. MADISON renewed his motion yesterday made & waved to render the
members of the 1st. branch "ineligible during their term of service, &
for one year after -- to such offices only as should be established, or
the emoluments thereof, augmented by the Legislature of the U. States
during the time of their being members." He supposed that the
unnecessary creation of offices, and increase of salaries, were the
evils most experienced, & that if the door was shut agst. them: it might
properly be left open for the appointt. of members to other offices as
an encouragemt. to the Legislative service.

Mr. Alex: MARTIN seconded the motion.

Mr. BUTLER. The amendt. does not go far eno' & wd. be easily evaded.

Mr. RUTLIDGE, was for preserving the Legislature as pure as possible, by
shutting the door against appointments of its own members to offices,
[8] which was one source of its corruption.

Mr. MASON. The motion of my colleague is but a partial remedy for the
evil. He appealed to him as a witness of the shameful partiality of the
Legislature of Virginia to its own members. He enlarged on the abuses &
corruption in the British Parliament, connected with the appointment of
its members. He cd. not suppose that a sufficient number of Citizens
could not be found who would be ready, without the inducement of
eligibility to offices, to undertake the Legislative service. Genius &
virtue it may be said, ought to be encouraged. Genius, for aught he
knew, might, but that virtue should be encouraged by such a species of
venality, was an idea, that at least had the merit of being new.

Mr. KING remarked that we were refining too much in this business; and
that the idea of preventing intrigue and solicitation of offices was
chimerical. You say that no member shall himself be eligible to any
office. Will this restrain him from from availing himself of the same
means which would gain appointments for himself, to gain them for his
son, his brother, or any other object of his partiality. We were losing
therefore the advantages on one side, without avoiding the evils on the
other.

Mr. WILSON supported the motion. The proper cure he said for corruption
in the Legislature was to take from it the power of appointing to
offices. One branch of corruption would indeed remain, that of creating
unnecessary offices, or granting unnecessary salaries, and for that the
amendment would be a proper remedy. He animadverted on the impropriety
of stigmatizing with the name of venality the laudable ambition of
rising into the honorable offices of the Government; an ambition most
likely to be felt in the early & most incorrupt period of life, & which
all wise & free Govts. had deemed it sound policy, to cherish, not to
check. The members of the Legislature have perhaps the hardest & least
profitable task of any who engage in the service of the state. Ought
this merit to be made a disqualification?

Mr. SHERMAN, observed that the motion did not go far enough. It might be
evaded by the creation of a new office, the translation to it of a
person from another office, and the appointment of a member of the
Legislature to the latter. A new Embassy might be established to a new
Court, & an ambassador taken from another, in order to create a vacancy
for a favorite member. He admitted that inconveniencies lay on both
sides. He hoped there wd. be sufficient inducements to the public
service without resorting to the prospect of desireable offices, and on
the whole was rather agst. the motion of Mr. Madison.

Mr. GERRY thought there was great weight in the objection of Mr.
Sherman. He added as another objection agst. admitting the eligibility
of members in any case that it would produce intrigues of ambitious men
for displacing proper officers, in order to create vacancies for
themselves. In answer to Mr. King he observed that although members, if
disqualified themselves might still intrigue & cabal for their sons,
brothers &c, yet as their own interest would be dearer to them, than
those of their nearest connections, it might be expected they would go
greater lengths to promote it.

Mr. MADISON had been led to this motion as a middle ground between an
eligibility in all cases, and an absolute disqualification. He admitted
the probable abuses of an eligibility of the members, to offices,
particularly within the gift of the Legislature He had witnessed the
partiality of such bodies to their own members, as had been remarked of
the Virginia assembly by his colleague [Col. Mason]. He appealed however
to him, in turn to vouch another fact not less notorious in Virginia,
that the backwardness of the best citizens to engage in the Legislative
service gave but too great success to unfit characters. The question was
not to be viewed on one side only. The advantages & disadvantages on
both ought to be fairly compared. The objects to be aimed at were to
fill all offices with the fittest characters, & to draw the wisest &
most worthy citizens into the Legislative service. If on one hand,
public bodies were partial to their own members; on the other they were
as apt to be misled by taking characters on report, or the authority of
patrons and dependents. All who had been concerned in the appointment of
strangers on those recommendations must be sensible of this truth. Nor
wd. the partialities of such Bodies be obviated by disqualifying their
own members. Candidates for office would hover round the seat of Govt.
or be found among the residents there, and practise all the means of
courting the favor of the members. A great proportion of the
appointments made by the States were evidently brought about in this
way. In the general Govt. the evil must be still greater, the characters
of distant states, being much less known throughout the U. States than
those of the distant parts of the same State. The elections by Congress
had generally turned on men living at the seat of the fedl Govt. or in
its neighbourhood. -- As to the next object, the impulse to the
Legislative service, was evinced by experience to be in general too
feeble with those best qualified for it. This inconveniency [9] wd. also
be more felt in the Natl. Govt. than in the State Govts. as the
sacrifices reqd. from the distant members, wd. be much greater, and the
pecuniary provisions, probably, more disproportiate. It wd. therefore be
impolitic to add fresh objections to the Legislative service by an
absolute disqualification of its members. The point in question was
whether this would be an objection with the most capable citizens.
Arguing from experience he concluded that it would. The Legislature of
Virga. would probably have been without many of its best members, if in
that situation, they had been ineligible to Congs. to the Govt. & other
honorable offices of the State.

Mr. BUTLER thought Characters fit for office wd. never be unknown.

Col. MASON. If the members of the Legislature are disqualified, still
the honors of the State will induce those who aspire to them to enter
that service, as the field in which they can best display & improve
their talents, & lay the train for their subsequent advancement.

Mr. JENIFER remarked that in Maryland, the Senators chosen for five
years, cd. hold no other office & that this circumstance gained them the
greatest confidence of the people.

On the question for agreeing to the motion of Mr. Madison.

Massts. divd. Ct. ay. N. Y. no. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va.
no. N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [10]

Mr. SHERMAN movd. to insert the words "and incapable of holding" after
the words "eligible to offices" [11] wch. was agreed to without
opposition.

The word "established" & the words " [12] Natl. Govt." were struck out
of Resolution 3d.: [13]

Mr. SPAIGHT called for a division of the question, in consequence of
which it was so put, as that it turned in [14] the first member of it,
"on the ineligibility of the [15] members during the term for which they
were elected" -- whereon the States were,

Massts. divd. Ct. ay. N. Y. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va.
ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. no. [16]

On the 2d. member of the sentence extending ineligibility of members to
one year after the term for which they were elected.

Col MASON thought this essential to guard agst. evasions by
resignations, and stipulations for office to be fulfilled at the
expiration of the legislative term. Mr. GERRY, had known such a case.
Mr. HAMILTON. Evasions cd. not be prevented -- as by proxies -- by
friends holding for a year, & them [17] opening the way &c. Mr. RUTLIDGE
admitted the possibility of evasions but was for controuling them as
possible. [18, 19] Mass. no. Ct. no. N. Y. ay. N. J. no. Pa. divd. Del.
ay. Mard. ay Va. no. N. C. no. S. C. ay. Geo. no. [20]

Adjd.

___________

1. In the transcript this sentence reads: "The third Resolution being
resumed."

2. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

3. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, aye -- 5; Connecticut, New York,
Delaware, North Carolina, South Carolina, no -- 5; Georgia, Divided."

4. The word "inconveniency" is changed to "inconvenience" in the
transcript.

5. The word "and" is here inserted in the transcript.

6. The word "be" is here inserted in the transcript.

7. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New York, New Jersey,
Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 8;
Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Delaware, no -- 3."

8. The transcript uses the word "offices" in the singular.

9. The word "inconveniency" is changed to "inconvenience" in the
transcript.

10. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New Jersey, aye --
2; New York, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina,
South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8; Massachusetts, divided."

11. The words "ineligible to any office" are substituted in the
transcript for "eligible to offices."

12. The words "under the" are here inserted in the transcript.

13. The words "the third Resolution" are substituted in the transcript
for "Resolution 3d".

14. The word "on" is substituted in the transcript for "in."

15. The word "the" is omitted in the transcript.

16. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New York, New
Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina,
aye -- 8; Pennsylvania, Georgia, no -- 2; Massachusetts, divided."

17. The word "then" is substituted in the transcript for "them."

18. The phrase "contracting them as far as possible" is substituted in
the transcript for "controuling them as possible."

19. The words "On the question" are here inserted in the transcript.

20. In the transcript the vote reads: "New York, Delaware, Maryland,
South Carolina, aye -- 4; Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey,
Virginia, North Carolina, Georgia, no -- 6; Pennsylvania, divided."


