FRIDAY  AUGst 10.   IN CONVENTION

Art. VI. Sect. 2. [1, 2] taken up.

Mr. PINKNEY. The Committee as he had conceived were instructed to report
the proper qualifications of property for the members of the Natl.
Legislature; instead of which they have referred the task to the Natl.
Legislature itself. Should it be left on this footing, the first
Legislature will meet without any particular qualifications of property:
and if it should happen to consist of rich men they might fix such such
qualifications as may be too favorable to the rich; if of poor men, an
opposite extreme might be run into. He was opposed to the establishment
of an undue aristocratic influence in the Constitution but he thought it
essential that the members of the Legislature, the Executive, and the
Judges, should be possessed of competent property to make them
independent & respectable. It was prudent when such great powers were to
be trusted to connect the tie of property with that of reputation in
securing a faithful administration. The Legislature would have the fate
of the Nation put into their hands. The President would also have a very
great influence on it. The Judges would have not only [3] important
causes between Citizen & Citizen but also, where foreigners are
concerned. They will even be the Umpires between the U. States and
individual States as well as between one State & another. Were he to fix
the quantum of property which should be required, he should not think of
less than one hundred thousand dollars for the President, half of that
sum for each of the Judges, and in like proportion for the members of
the Natl. Legislature. He would however leave the sums blank. His motion
was that the President of the U. S. the Judges, and members of the
Legislature should be required to swear that they were respectively
possessed of a cleared [4] unincumbered Estate to the amount of _____ in
the case of the President &c &c.

Mr. RUTLIDGE seconded the motion; observing that the Committee had
reported no qualifications because they could not agree on any among
themselves, being embarrassed by the danger on one side of displeasing
the people by making them high, and on the other of rendering them
nugatory by making them low.

Mr. ELSEWORTH. The different circumstances of different parts of the U.
S. and the probable difference between the present and future
circumstances of the whole, render it improper to have either uniform or
fixed qualifications. Make them so high as to be useful in the S.
States, and they will be inapplicable to the E. States. Suit them to the
latter, and they will serve no purpose in the former. In like manner
what may be accomodated to the existing State of things among us, may be
very inconvenient in some future state of them. He thought for these
reasons that it was better to leave this matter to the Legislative
discretion than to attempt a provision for it in the Constitution.
DOCtr. FRANKLIN expressed his dislike of [5] every thing that tended to
debase the spirit of the common people. If honesty was often the
companion of wealth, and if poverty was exposed to peculiar temptation,
it was not less true that the possession of property increased the
desire of more property. Some of the greatest rogues he was ever
acquainted with, were the richest rogues. We should remember the
character which the Scripture requires in Rulers, that they should be
men hating covetousness. This Constitution will be much read and
attended to in Europe, and if it should betray a great partiality to the
rich, will not only hurt us in the esteem of the most liberal and
enlightened men there, but discourage the common people from removing
into [6] this Country.

The Motion of Mr. Pinkney was rejected by so general a no, that the
States were not called. 

Mr. MADISON was opposed to the Section as vesting an improper &
dangerous power in the Legislature. The qualifications of electors and
elected were fundamental articles in a Republican Govt. and ought to be
fixed by the Constitution. If the Legislature could regulate those of
either, it can by degrees subvert the Constitution. A Republic may be
converted into an aristocracy or oligarchy as well by limiting the
number capable of being elected, as the number authorised to elect. In
all cases where the representatives of the people will have a personal
interest distinct from that of their Constituents, there was the same
reason for being jealous of them, as there was for relying on them with
full confidence, when they had a common interest. This was one of the
former cases. It was as improper as to allow them to fix their own
wages, or their own privileges. It was a power also which might be made
subservient to the views of one faction agst. another. Qualifications
founded on artificial distinctions may be devised, by the stronger in
order to keep out partizans of a weaker faction.

Mr. ELSEWORTH, admitted that the power was not unexceptionable; but he
could not view it as dangerous. Such a power with regard to the electors
would be dangerous because it would be much more liable to abuse.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved to strike out "with regard to property" in order
to leave the Legislature entirely at large.

Mr. WILLIAMSON. This could [7] surely never be admitted. Should a
majority of the Legislature be composed of any particular description of
men, of lawyers for example, which is no improbable supposition, the
future elections might be secured to their own body. Mr. MADISON
observed that the British Parliamt. possessed the power of regulating
the qualifications both of the electors, and the elected; and the abuse
they had made of it was a lesson worthy of our attention. They had made
the changes in both cases subservient to their own views, or to the
views of political or Religious parties.

[8] Question on the motion to strike out with regard to property

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. no. [9] Md. no. Va.
no. N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. ay. [10]

Mr. RUTLIDGE was opposed to leaving the power to the Legislature. He
proposed that the qualifications should be the same as for members of
the State Legislatures.

Mr. WILSON thought it would be best on the whole to let the Section go
out. A uniform rule would probably be never [11] fixed by the
Legislature, and this particular power would constructively exclude
every other power of regulating qualifications.

On the question for agreeing to Art. VI. Sect. 2d. -- N. H. ay. Mas. ay.
Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Md. no. Va. no. N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. ay.
[12]

On Motion of Mr. Wilson to reconsider Art: IV. Sect. 2; so as to restore
3 in place of seven years of citizenship as a qualification for being
elected into the House of Represents. 

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay. N.
C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. no. [13]

Monday next was then assigned for the reconsideration: all the States
being ay. except Massts. & Georgia

Art: VI. Sect. 3. [14, 15] taken up.

Mr. GHORUM contended that less than a Majority in each House should be
made of [16] Quorum, otherwise great delay might happen in business, and
great inconvenience from the future increase of numbers.

Mr. MERCER was also for less than a majority. So great a number will put
it in the power of a few by seceding at a critical moment to introduce
convulsions, and endanger the Governmt. Examples of secession have
already happened in some of the States. He was for leaving it to the
Legislature to fix the Quorum, as in Great Britain, where the requisite
number is small & no inconveniency [17] has been experienced.

Col. MASON. This is a valuable & necessary part of the plan. In this
extended Country, embracing so great a diversity of interests, it would
be dangerous to the distant parts to allow a small number of members of
the two Houses to make laws. The Central States could always take care
to be on the Spot and by meeting earlier than the distant ones, or
wearying their patience, and outstaying them, could carry such measures
as they pleased. He admitted that inconveniences might spring from the
secession of a small number: But he had also known good produced by an
apprehension, of it. He had known a paper emission prevented by that
cause in Virginia. He thought the Constitution as now moulded was
founded on sound principles, and was disposed to put into it extensive
powers. At the same time he wished to guard agst. abuses as much as
possible. If the Legislature should be able to reduce the number at all,
it might reduce it as low as it pleased & the U. States might be
governed by a Juncto -- A majority of the number which had been agreed
on, was so few that he feared it would be made an objection agst. the
plan.

Mr. KING admitted there might be some danger of giving an advantage to
the Central States; but was of opinion that the public inconveniency
[17] on the other side was more to be dreaded.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved to fix the quorum at 33 members in the H. of
Reps. & 14 in the Senate. This is a majority of the present number, and
will be a bar to the Legislature: fix the number low and they will
generally attend knowing that advantage may be taken of their absence.
the Secession of a small number ought not to be suffered to break a
quorum. Such events in the States may have been of little consequence.
In the national Councils, they may be fatal. Besides other mischiefs, if
a few can break up a quorum, they may seize a moment when a particular
part of the Continent may be in need of immediate aid, to extort, by
threatening a secession, some unjust & selfish measure.

Mr. MERCER 2ded. the motion

Mr. KING said he had just prepared a motion which instead of fixing the
numbers proposed by Mr. Govr. Morris as Quorums, made those the lowest
numbers, leaving the Legislature at liberty to increase them or not. He
thought the future increase of members would render a majority of the
whole extremely cumbersome.

Mr. MERCER agreed to substitute Mr. Kings motion in place of Mr.
Morris's.

Mr. ELSEWORTH was opposed to it. It would be a pleasing ground of
confidence to the people that no law or burden could be imposed on them,
by a few men. He reminded the movers that the Constitution proposed to
give such a discretion with regard to the number of Representatives that
a very incovenient number was not to be apprehended. The inconveniency
[18] of secessions may be guarded agst. by giving to each House an
authority to require the attendance of absent members.

Mr. WILSON concurred in the sentiments of Mr. Elseworth.

Mr. GERRY seemed to think that some further precautions than merely
fixing the quorum might be necessary. He observed that as 17 wd. be a
majority of a quorum of 33, and 8 of 14, questions might by possibility
be carried in the H. of Reps. by 2 large States, and in the Senate by
the same States with the aid of two small ones. -- He proposed that the
number for a quorum in the H. of Reps. should not exceed 50 nor be less
than 33, leaving the intermediate discretion to the Legislature.

Mr. KING, as the quorum could not be altered witht. the concurrence of
the President by less than 2/3 of each House, he thought there could be
no danger in trusting the Legislature.

Mr. CARROL this will be no security agst. a continuance of the quorums
at 33 & 14. when they ought to be increased.

On [19] question on Mr. Kings motion "that not less than 33 in the H. of
Reps. nor less than 14 in the Senate shd. constitute a Quorum, which may
be increased by a law, on additions to [19] members in either House.

N. H. no. Mas. ay. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. no. Va. no. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [20]

Mr. RANDOLPH & Mr. MADISON moved to add to the end of Art. VI. Sect 3.
"and may be authorised to compel the attendance of absent members in
such manner & under such penalties as each House may provide." Agreed to
by all except Pena. which was divided.

Art: VI. Sect. 3. [21] agreed to as amended Nem. con. Agreed to nem.
con. [23]

Sect. 4. [22]

Sect. 5. [22]

Mr. MADISON observed that the right of expulsion (Art. VI. Sect. 6.)
[22] was too important to be exercised by a bare majority of a quorum:
and in emergencies of faction might be dangerously abused. He moved that
"with the concurrence of 2/3 " might be inserted between may & expel.

Mr. RANDOLPH & Mr. MASON approved the idea.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. This power may be safely trusted to a majority. To
require more may produce abuses on the side of the minority. A few men
from factious motives may keep in a member who ought to be expelled.

Mr. CARROL thought that the concurrence of 2/3 at least ought to be
required.

On the question for [24] requiring 2/3 in cases of expelling a member.
[25]

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. divd. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay.
N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [25]

Art. VI. Sect. 6. as thus amended [26] agreed to nem. con. Art: VI.
Sect. 7 [26, 22] taken up.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS urged that if the yeas & nays were proper at all any
individual ought to be authorised to call for them: and moved an
amendment to that effect. -- The small States may otherwise be under a
disadvantage, and find it difficult, to get a concurrence of 1/5

Mr. RANDOLPH 2ded. ye. motion.

Mr. SHERMAN had rather strike out the yeas & nays altogether. They never
have done any good, and have done much mischief. They are not proper as
the reasons governing the voter never appear along with them.

Mr. ELSEWORTH was of the same opinion.

Col. MASON liked the Section as it stood. it was a middle way between
the two extremes.

Mr. GHORUM was opposed to the motion for allowing a single member to
call the yeas & nays, and recited the abuses of it, in Massts. 1 [27] in
stuffing the journals with them on frivolous occasions. 2 [27] in
misleading the people who never know the reasons determining the votes.

The motion for allowing a single member to call the yeas & nays was
disagd. to nem. con.

Mr. CARROL & Mr. RANDOLPH moved Here insert the motion at the bottom of
page [*9, 28]

[*9] to strike out the words "each House" and to insert the words "the
House of Representatives" in Sect. 7. Art. 6. and to add to the Section
the words "and any member of the Senate shall be at liberty to enter his
dissent."

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS & Mr. WILSON observed that if the minority were to have
a right to enter their votes & reasons, the other side would have a
right to complain, if it were not extended to them: & to allow it to
both, would fill the Journals, like the records of a Court, with
replications, rejoinders &c.

[29] Question on Mr. Carrols motion to allow a member to enter his
dissent

N. H. no. Mas. no. Cont. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay.
N. C. no. S. C. ay. Geo. no. [30]

Mr. GERRY moved to strike out the words "when it shall be acting in its
legislative capacity" in order to extend the provision to the Senate
when exercising its peculiar authorities and to insert "except such
parts thereof as in their judgment require secrecy" after the words
"publish them." -- [It was thought by others that provision should be
made with respect to these when that part came under consideration which
proposed to vest those additional authorities in the Senate.]

On this question for striking out the words "when acting in its
Legislative capacity"

N. H. divd. Mas. ay. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay.
N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [31]

Adjourned 

___________

1. See ante.

2. The word "was" is here inserted in the transcript.

3. The words "have not only" are transposed in the transcript to read
"not only have."

4. The word "clear" is substituted in the transcript for "cleared."

5. The word "to" is substituted in the transcript for "of."

6. The word "to" is substituted in the transcript for "into."

7. The word "would" is substituted in the transcript for "could."

8. The words "On the" are here inserted in the transcript.

9. In the printed Journal Delaware did not vote.

10. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Georgia, aye -- 4; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Delaware,
[9] Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, no -- 7."

11. In the transcript the words "be never" are transposed to read "never
be."

12. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Georgia, aye -- 3; Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, no -- 7."

13. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, aye -- 6; New Hampshire,
Massachusetts, New Jersey, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 5."

14. See ante.

15. The words "was then" are here inserted in the transcript.

16. In the transcript the word "of" is crossed out and "a" is written
above it.

17. The word "inconveniency" is changed to "inconvenience" in the
transcript.

18. The word "inconveniency" is changed to "inconvenience" in the
transcript.

19. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

20. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Delaware, aye --
2; New Hampshire, Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no. -- 9."

21. The word "was" is here inserted in the transcript.

22. See ante.

23. In the transcript this reads as follows: "Sections 4 and 5, of
Article 6, were then agreed to, nem. con."

24. The word "for" is omitted in the transcript.

25. In the transcript the vote by States is omitted and the following
sentence is inserted: "ten States were in the affirmative, Pennsylvania,
divided."

26. The words "was then" are here inserted in the transcript.

27. The figures "1" and "2" are changed to "first" and "secondly" in the
transcript.

28. Madison's direction is omitted in the transcript.

29. The words "On the " are here inserted in the transcript.

30. In the transcript the vote reads: "Maryland, Virginia, South
Carolina, aye -- 3; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
Jersey, Pennsylania, Delaware, North Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8."

31. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Delaware,
Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 7;
Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, no -- 3; New Hampshire, divided."


