SATURDAY  JUNE 9th.  MR. LUTHER MARTIN FROM MARYLAND TOOK HIS SEAT IN
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE

Mr. GERRY, according to previous notice given by him, moved "that the
National Executive should be elected by the Executives of the States
whose proportion of votes should be the same with that allowed to the
States in the election of the Senate." If the appointmt. should be made
by the Natl. Legislature, it would lessen that independence of the
Executive which ought to prevail, would give birth to intrigue and
corruption between the Executive & Legislature previous to the election,
and to partiality in the Executive afterwards to the friends who
promoted him. Some other mode therefore appeared to him necessary. He
proposed that of appointing by the State Executives as most analogous to
the principle observed in electing the other branches of the Natl.
Govt.; the first branch being chosen by the people of the States, & the
2d. by the Legislatures of the States; he did not see any objection
agst. letting the Executive be appointed by the Executives of the
States. He supposed the Executives would be most likely to select the
fittest men, and that it would be their interest to support the man of
their own choice.

Mr. RANDOLPH, urged strongly the inexpediency of Mr. Gerry's mode of
appointing the Natl. Executive. The confidence of the people would not
be secured by it to the Natl. magistrate. The small States would lose
all chance of an appointmt. from within themselves. Bad appointments
would be made; the Executives of the States being little conversant with
characters not within their own small spheres. The State Executives too
notwithstanding their constitutional independence, being in fact
dependent on the State Legislatures will generally be guided by the
views of the latter, and prefer either favorites within the States, or
such as it may be expected will be most partial to the interests of the
State. A Natl. Executive thus chosen will not be likely to defend with
becoming vigilance & firmness the National rights agst. State
encroachments. Vacancies also must happen. How can these be filled? He
could not suppose either that the Executives would feel the interest in
supporting the Natl. Executive which had been imagined. They will not
cherish the great Oak which is to reduce them to paltry shrubs.

On the question for referring the appointment of the Natl. Executive to
the State Executives as propd. by Mr. Gerry Massts. no. Cont. no. N. Y.
no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. divd. Md. no. Va. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [1]

Mr. PATTERSON moves that the Committee resume the clause relating to the
rule of suffrage in the Natl. Legislature.

Mr. BREARLY seconds him. He was sorry he said that any question on this
point was brought into view. It had been much agitated in Congs. at the
time of forming the Confederation, and was then rightly settled by
allowing to each sovereign State an equal vote. Otherwise the smaller
States must have been destroyed instead of being saved. The substitution
of a ratio, he admitted carried fairness on the face of it; but on a
deeper examination was unfair and unjust. Judging of the disparity of
the States by the quota of Congs. Virga. would have 16 votes, and
Georgia but one. A like proportion to the others will make the whole
number ninity. There will be 3. large states, and 10 small ones. The
large States by which he meant Massts. Pena. & Virga. will carry every
thing before them. It had been admitted, and was known to him from facts
within N. Jersey that where large & small counties were united into a
district for electing representatives for the district, the large
counties always carried their point, and Consequently that [2] the large
States would do so. Virga. with her sixteen votes will be a solid column
indeed, a formidable phalanx. While Georgie with her Solitary vote, and
the other little States will be obliged to throw themselves constantly
into the scale of some large one, in order to have any weight at all. He
had come to the convention with a view of being as useful as he could in
giving energy and stability to the federal Government. When the
proposition for destroying the equality of votes came forward, he was
astonished, he was alarmed. Is it fair then it will be asked that
Georgia should have an equal vote with Virga.? He would not say it was.
What remedy then? One only, that a map of the U. S. be spread out, that
all the existing boundaries be erased, and that a new partition of the
whole be made into 13 equal parts.

Mr. PATTERSON considered the proposition for a proportional
representation as striking at the existence of the lesser States. He wd.
premise however to an investigation of this question some remarks on the
nature structure and powers of the Convention. The Convention he said
was formed in pursuance of an Act of Congs. that this act was recited in
several of the Commissions, particularly that of Massts. which he
required to be read: that the amendment of the confederacy was the
object of all the laws and commissions on the subject; that the articles
of the Confederation were therefore the proper basis of all the
proceedings of the Convention. [3] We ought to keep within its limits,
or we should be charged by our Constituents with usurpation, that the
people of America were sharpsighted and not to be deceived. But the
Commissions under which we acted were not only the measure of our power,
they denoted also the sentiments of the States on the subject of our
deliberation. The idea of a national Govt. as contradistinguished from a
federal one, never entered into the mind of any of them, and to the
public mind we must accomodate ourselves. We have no power to go beyond
the federal scheme, and if we had the people are not ripe for any other.
We must follow the people; the people will not follow us. -- The
proposition could not be maintained whether considered in reference to
us as a nation, or as a confederacy. A confederacy supposes sovereignty
in the members composing it & sovereignty supposes equality. If we are
to be considered as a nation, all State distinctions must be abolished,
the whole must be thrown into hotchpot, and when an equal division is
made, then there may be fairly an equality of representation. He held up
Virga. Massts. & Pa. as the three large States, and the other ten as
small ones; repeating the calculations of Mr. Brearly as to the
disparity of votes which wd. take place, and affirming that the small
States would never agree to it. He said there was no more reason that a
great individual State contributing much, should have more votes than a
small one contributing little, than that a rich individual citizen
should have more votes than an indigent one. If the rateable property of
A was to that of B as 40 to 1, ought A for that reason to have 40 times
as many votes as B. Such a principle would never be admitted, and if it
were admitted would put B entirely at the mercy of A. As A. has more to
be protected than B so he ought to contribute more for the common
protection. The same may be said of a large State wch. has more to be
protected than a small one. Give the large States an influence in
proportion to their magnitude, and what will be the consequence? Their
ambition will be proportionally increased, and the small States will
have every thing to fear. It was once proposed by Galloway & some others
that America should be represented in the British Parlt. and then be
bound by its laws. America could not have been entitled to more than 1/3
of the no. of [4] Representatives which would fall to the share of G. B.
Would American rights & interests have been safe under an authority thus
constituted? It has been said that if a Natl. Govt. is to be formed so
as to operate on the people and not on the States, the representatives
ought to be drawn from the people. But why so? May not a Legislature
filled by the State Legislatures operate on the people who chuse the
State Legislatures? or may not a practicable coercion be found. He
admitted that there was none such in the existing System. -- He was
attached strongly to the plan of the existing confederacy, in which the
people chuse their Legislative representatives; and the Legislatures
their federal representatives. No other amendments were wanting than to
mark the orbits of the States with due precision, and provide for the
use of coercion, which was the great point. He alluded to the hint
thrown out heretofore by Mr. Wilson of the necessity to which the large
States might be reduced of confederating among themselves, by a refusal
of the others to concur. Let them unite if they please, but let them
remember that they have no authority to compel the others to unite. N.
Jersey will never confederate on the plan before the Committee. She
would be swallowed up. He had rather submit to a monarch, to a despot,
than to such a fate. He would not only oppose the plan here but on his
return home do every thing in his power to defeat it there.

Mr. WILSON hoped if the Confederacy should be dissolved, that a
majority, that a minority of the States would unite for their safety. He
entered elaborately into the defence of a proportional representation,
stating for his first position that as all authority was derived from
the people, equal numbers of people ought to have an equal no. of
representatives, and different numbers of people different numbers of
representatives. This principle had been improperly violated in the
Confederation, owing to the urgent circumstances of the time. As to the
case of A. & B, stated by Mr. Patterson, he observed that in districts
as large as the States, the number of people was the best measure of
their comparative wealth. Whether therefore wealth or numbers were [5]
to form the ratio it would be the same. Mr. P. admitted persons, not
property to be the measure of suffrage. Are not the Citizens of Pena.
equal to those of N. Jersey? does it require 150 of the former to
balance 50 of the latter? Representatives of different districts ought
clearly to hold the same proportion to each other, as their respective
Constituents hold to each other. If the small States will not
confederate on this plan, Pena. & he presumed some other States, would
not confederate on any other. We have been told that each State being
sovereign, all are equal. So each man is naturally a sovereign over
himself, and all men are therefore naturally equal. Can he retain this
equality when he becomes a member of Civil Government? He can not. As
little can a Sovereign State, when it becomes a member of a federal
Governt. If N. J. will not part with her Sovereignty it is in vain to
talk of Govt. A new partition of the States is desireable, but evidently
& totally impracticable.

Mr. WILLIAMSON, illustrated the cases by a comparison of the different
States, to Counties of different sizes within the same State; observing
that proportional representation was admitted to be just in the latter
case, and could not therefore be fairly contested in the former.

The Question being about to be put Mr. PATTERSON hoped that as so much
depended on it, it might be thought best to postpone the decision till
tomorrow, which was done nem. con.

The Come. rose & the House adjourned.

___________

1. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, South Carolina,
Georgia, no; Delaware divided."

2. The word "that" is omitted in the transcript.

3. The word "that" is here inserted in the transcript.

4. The words "no. of" are omitted in the transcript.

5. The word "was" is substituted in the transcript for "were."


