MONDAY  JULY 9th.   IN CONVENTION

Mr. Daniel Carroll from Maryland took his Seat.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS delivered a report from the Come. of 5 members to whom
was committed the clause in the Report of the Come. consisting of a
member from each State, stating the proper ratio of Representatives in
the 1st. branch, to be as 1 to every 40,000 inhabitants, as follows viz

"The Committee to whom was referred the 1st. clause of the 1st.
proposition reported from the grand Committee, beg leave to report

I. [1] that in the 1st. meeting of the Legislature the 1st. branch
thereof consist of 56. members of which Number, N. Hamshire shall have
2. Massts. 7. R. Id. 1. Cont 4. N. Y. 5. N. J. 3. Pa. 8. Del. 1. Md. 4.
Va. 9. N. C. 5. S. C. 5. Geo. 2. -- 

II. [1] But as the present situation of the States may probably alter as
well in point of wealth as in the number of their inhabitants, that the
Legislature be authorized from time to time to augment ye. number of
Representatives. And in case any of the States shall hereafter be
divided, or any two or more States united, or any new States created
within the limits of the United States, the Legislature shall possess
authority to regulate the number of Representatives in any of the
foregoing cases, upon the principles of their wealth and number of
inhabitants."

Mr. SHERMAN wished to know on what principles or calculations the Report
was founded. It did not appear to correspond with any rule of numbers,
or of any requisition hitherto adopted by Congs.

Mr. GORHAM. Some provision of this sort was necessary in the outset. The
number of blacks & whites with some regard to supposed wealth was the
general guide Fractions could not be observed. The Legislre. is to make
alterations from time to time as justice & propriety may require. Two
objections prevailed agst. the rate [2] of 1 member for every 40,000.
inhts. The 1st. was that the Representation would soon be too numerous:
the 2d. that the Westn. States who may have a different interest, might
if admitted on that principle by degrees, outvote the Atlantic. Both
these objections are removed. The number will be small in the first
instance and may be continued so; and the Atlantic States having ye.
Govt. in their own hands, may take care of their own interest, by
dealing out the right of Representation in safe proportions to the
Western States. These were the views of the Committee.

Mr. L MARTIN wished to know whether the Come. were guided in the ratio,
by the wealth or number of inhabitants, of the States, or by [3] both;
noting its variations from former apportionments by Congs.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS & Mr. RUTLIDGE moved to postpone the 1st. paragraph
relating to the number of members to be allowed each State in the first
instance, and to take up the 2d. paragraph authorizing the Legislre. to
alter the number from time to time according to wealth & inhabitants.
The motion was agreed to nem. con.

On [4] Question on the 2d. paragh. taken without any debate

Masts. ay. Cont. ay. N. Y. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va.
ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [5]

Mr. SHERMAN moved to refer the 1st. part apportioning the
Representatives, to a Comme. of a member from each State.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS seconded the motion; observing that this was the only
case in which such Committees were useful.

Mr. WILLIAMSON. thought it would be necessary to return to the rule of
numbers, but that the Western States stood on different footing. If
their property shall [6] be rated as high as that of the Atlantic
States, then their representation ought to hold a like proportion.
Otherwise if their property was not to be equally rated.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. The Report is little more than a guess. Wealth was not
altogether disregarded by the Come. Where it was apparently in favor of
one State, whose nos. were superior to the numbers of another, by a
fraction only, a member extraordinary was allowed to the former: and so
vice versa. The Committee meant little more than to bring the matter to
a point for the consideration of the House.

Mr. REED asked why Georgia was allowed 2 members, when her number of
inhabitants had stood below that of Delaware.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. Such is the rapidity of the population of that State,
that before the plan takes effect, it will probably be entitled to 2
Representatives.

Mr. RANDOLPH. disliked the report of the Come. but had been unwilling to
object to it. He was apprehensive that as the number was not to be
changed till the Natl. Legislature should please, a pretext would never
be wanting to postpone alterations, and keep the power in the hands of
those possessed of it. He was in favor of the commitmt. to a member from
each State.

Mr. PATTERSON considered the proposed estimate for the future according
to the Combined rule [7] of numbers and wealth, as too vague. For this
reason N. Jersey was agst. it. He could regard negroes [8] slaves in no
light but as property. They are no free agents, have no personal
liberty, no faculty of acquiring property, but on the contrary are
themselves property, & like other property entirely at the will of the
Master. Has a man in Virga. a number of votes in proportion to the
number of his slaves? And if Negroes are not represented in the States
to which they belong, why should they be represented in the Genl. Govt.
What is the true principle of Representation? It is an expedient by
which an assembly of certain individls. chosen by the people is
substituted in place of the inconvenient meeting of the people
themselves. If such a meeting of the people was actually to take place,
would the slaves vote? They would not. Why then shd. they be
represented. He was also agst. such an indirect encouragemt. of the
slave trade; observing that Congs. in their act relating to the change
of the 8 art: of Confedn. had been ashamed to use the term "slaves" &
had substituted a description.

Mr. MADISON, reminded Mr. Patterson that his doctrine of Representation
which was in its principle the genuine one, must for ever silence the
pretensions of the small States to an equality of votes with the large
ones. They ought to vote in the same proportion in which their citizens
would do, if the people of all the States were collectively met. He
suggested as a proper ground of compromise, that in the first branch the
States should be represented according to their number of free
inhabitants; and in the 2d. which had for one of its primary objects the
guardianship of property, according to the whole number, including
slaves.

Mr. BUTLER urged warmly the justice & necessity of regarding wealth in
the apportionment of Representation.

Mr. KING had always expected that as the Southern States are the
richest, they would not league themselves with the Northn. unless some
respect were paid to their superior wealth. If the latter expect those
preferential distinctions in Commerce & other advantages which they will
derive from the connection they must not expect to receive them without
allowing some advantages in return. Eleven out of 13 of the States had
agreed to consider Slaves in the apportionment of taxation; and taxation
and Representation ought to go together.

On the question for committing the first paragraph of the Report to a
member from each State.

Masts. ay. Cont. ay. N. Y. no. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va.
ay. N. C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. ay. [9]

The Come. appointed were Mr. King. Mr. Sherman, Mr. Yates, Mr. Brearly,
Mr. Govr. Morris, Mr. Reed, Mr. Carrol, Mr. Madison, Mr. Williamson, Mr.
Rutledge, Mr. Houston.

Adjd.

___________

1. The Roman numerals "I" and "II" are omitted in the transcript.

2. The word "rule" is substituted in the transcript for "rate."

3. The word "by" is omitted in the transcript.

4. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

5. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 9; New York, New Jersey, no -- 2."

6. The word "should" is substituted in the transcript for "shall."

7. The transcript uses the word "rule" in the plural.

8. The transcript uses the word "negroes" in the singular.

9. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina,
Georgia, aye -- 9; New York, South Carolina, no -- 2."


