SATURDAY  JULY 21   IN CONVENTION

Mr. WILLIAMSON moved that the Electors of the Executive should be paid
out of the National Treasury for the Service to be performed by them."
Justice required this: as it was a national service they were to render.
The motion was agreed to Nem. Con.

Mr. WILSON moved as an amendment to Resoln. 10. [1] that the supreme
Natl. Judiciary should be associated with the Executive in the
Revisionary power." This proposition had been before made and failed:
but he was so confirmed by reflection in the opinion of its utility,
that he thought it incumbent on him to make another effort: The
Judiciary ought to have an opportunity of remonstrating agst. projected
encroachments on the people as well as on themselves. It had been said
that the Judges, as expositors of the Laws would have an opportunity of
defending their constitutional rights. There was weight in this
observation; but this power of the Judges did not go far enough. Laws
may be unjust, may be unwise, may be dangerous, may be destructive; and
yet may not be so unconstitutional as to justify the Judges in refusing
to give them effect. Let them have a share in the Revisionary power, and
they will have an opportunity of taking notice of these [2] characters
of a law, and of counteracting, by the weight of their opinions the
improper views of the Legislature. -- 

Mr. MADISON 2ded. the motion

Mr. GHORUM did not see the advantage of employing the Judges in this
way. As Judges they are not to be presumed to possess any peculiar
knowledge of the mere policy of public measures. Nor can it be necessary
as a security for their constitutional rights. The Judges in England
have no such additional provision for their defence, yet their
jurisdiction is not invaded. He thought it would be best to let the
Executive alone be responsible, and at most to authorize him to call on
[3] Judges for their opinions.

Mr. ELSEWORTH approved heartily of the motion. The aid of the Judges
will give more wisdom & firmness to the Executive. They will possess a
systematic and accurate knowledge of the Laws, which the Executive can
not be expected always to possess. The law of Nations also will
frequently come into question. Of this the Judges alone will have
competent information.

Mr. MADISON considered the object of the motion as of great importance
to the meditated Constitution. It would be useful to the Judiciary
departmt. by giving it an additional opportunity of defending itself
agst. Legislative encroachments; It would be useful to the Executive, by
inspiring additional confidence & firmness in exerting the revisionary
power: It would be useful to the Legislature by the valuable assistance
it would give in preserving a consistency, conciseness, perspicuity &
technical propriety in the laws, qualities peculiarly necessary; & yet
shamefully wanting in our republican Codes. It would moreover be useful
to the Community at large as an additional check agst. a pursuit of
those unwise & unjust measures which constituted so great a portion of
our calamities. If any solid objection could be urged agst. the motion,
it must be on the supposition that it tended to give too much strength
either to the Executive or Judiciary. He did not think there was the
least ground for this apprehension. It was much more to be apprehended
that notwithstanding this co-operation of the two departments, the
Legislature would still be an overmatch for them. Experience in all the
States had evinced a powerful tendency in the Legislature to absorb all
power into its vortex. This was the real source of danger to the
American Constitutions; & suggested the necessity of giving every
defensive authority to the other departments that was consistent with
republican principles.

Mr. MASON said he had always been a friend to this provision. It would
give a confidence to the Executive, which he would not otherwise have,
and without which the Revisionary power would be of little avail.

Mr. GERRY did not expect to see this point which had undergone full
discussion, again revived. The object he conceived of the Revisionary
power was merely to secure the Executive department agst. legislative
encroachment. The Executive therefore who will best know and be ready to
defend his rights ought alone to have the defence of them. The motion
was liable to strong objections. It was combining & mixing together the
Legislative & the other departments. It was establishing an improper
coalition between the Executive & Judiciary departments. It was making
Statesmen of the Judges; and setting them up as the guardians of the
Rights of the people. He relied for his part on the Representatives of
the people as the guardians of their Rights & interests. It was making
the Expositors of the Laws, the Legislators which ought never to be
done. A better expedient for correcting the laws, would be to appoint as
had been done in Pena. a person or persons of proper skill, to draw
bills for the Legislature.

Mr. STRONG thought with Mr. Gerry that the power of making ought to be
kept distinct from that of expounding, the laws. No maxim was better
established. The Judges in exercising the function of expositors might
be influenced by the part they had taken, in framing [4] the laws.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. Some check being necessary on the Legislature, the
question is in what hands it should be lodged. On one side it was
contended that the Executive alone ought to exercise it. He did not
think that an Executive appointed for 6 years, and impeachable whilst in
office wd. be a very effectual check. On the other side it was urged
that he ought to be reinforced by the Judiciary department. Agst. this
it was objected that Expositors of laws ought to have no hand in making
them, and arguments in favor of this had been drawn from England. What
weight was due to them might be easily determined by an attention to
facts. The truth was that the Judges in England had a great share in ye.
Legislation. They are consulted in difficult & doubtful cases. They may
be & some of them are members of the Legislature. They are or may be
members of the privy Council, and can there advise the Executive as they
will do with us if the motion succeeds. The influence the English Judges
may have in the latter capacity in strengthening the Executive check can
not be ascertained, as the King by his influence in a manner dictates
the laws. There is one difference in the two Cases however which
disconcerts all reasoning from the British to our proposed Constitution.
The British Executive has so great an interest in his prerogatives and
such powerful means of defending them that he will never yield any part
of them. The interest of our Executive is so inconsiderable & so
transitory, and his means of defending it so feeble, that there is the
justest ground to fear his want of firmness in resisting incroachments.
He was extremely apprehensive that the auxiliary firmness & weight of
the Judiciary would not supply the deficiency. He concurred in thinking
the public liberty in greater danger from Legislative usurpations than
from any other source. It had been said that the Legislature ought to be
relied on as the proper Guardians of liberty. The answer was short and
conclusive. Either bad laws will be pushed or not. On the latter
supposition no check will be wanted. On the former a strong check will
be necessary: And this is the proper supposition. Emissions of paper
money, largesses to the people -- a remission of debts and similar
measures, will at some times be popular, and will be pushed for that
reason At other times such measures will coincide with the interests of
the Legislature themselves, & that will be a reason not less cogent for
pushing them. It may be thought that the people will not be deluded and
misled in the latter case. But experience teaches another lesson. The
press is indeed a great means of diminishing the evil, yet it is found
to be unable to prevent it altogether.

Mr. L. MARTIN. Considered the association of the Judges with the
Executive as a dangerous innovation; as well as one which [5] could not
produce the particular advantage expected from it. A knowledge of
Mankind, and of Legislative affairs cannot be presumed to belong in a
higher deger degree to the Judges than to the Legislature. And as to the
Constitutionality of laws, that point will come before the Judges in
their proper [6] official character. In this character they have a
negative on the laws. Join them with the Executive in the Revision and
they will have a double negative. It is necessary that the Supreme
Judiciary should have the confidence of the people. This will soon be
lost, if they are employed in the task of remonstrating agst. popular
measures of the Legislature. Besides in what mode & proportion are they
to vote in the Council of Revision?

Mr. MADISON could not discover in the proposed association of the Judges
with the Executive in the Revisionary check on the Legislature any
violation of the maxim which requires the great departments of power to
be kept separate & distinct. On the contrary he thought it an auxiliary
precaution in favor of the maxim If a Constitutional discrimination of
the departments on paper were a sufficient security to each agst.
encroachments of the others, all further provisions would indeed be
superfluous. But experience had taught us a distrust of that security;
and that it is necessary to introduce such a balance of powers and
interests, as will guarantee the provisions on paper. Instead therefore
of contenting ourselves with laying down the Theory in the Constitution
that each department ought to be separate & distinct, it was proposed to
add a defensive power to each which should maintain the Theory in
practice. In so doing we did not blend the departments together. We
erected effectual barriers for keeping them separate. The most regular
example of this theory was in the British Constitution. Yet it was not
only the practice there to admit the Judges to a seat in the
legislature, and in the Executive Councils, and to submit to their
previous examination all laws of a certain description, but it was a
part of their Constitution that the Executive might negative any law
whatever; a part of their Constitution which had been universally
regarded as calculated for the preservation of the whole. The objection
agst. a union of the Judiciary & Executive branches in the revision of
the laws, had either no foundation or was not carried far enough. If
such a Union was an improper mixture of powers, or such a Judiciary
check on the laws, was inconsistent with the Theory of a free
Constitution, it was equally so to admit the Executive to any
participation in the making of laws; and the revisionary plan ought to
be discarded altogether.

Col. MASON Observed that the defence of the Executive was not the sole
object of the Revisionary power. He expected even greater advantages
from it. Notwithstanding the precautions taken in the Constitution of
the Legislature, it would still so much resemble that of the individual
States, that it must be expected frequently to pass unjust and
pernicious laws. This restraining power was therefore essentially
necessary. It would have the effect not only of hindering the final
passage of such laws; but would discourage demagogues from attempting to
get them passed. It had been said [by Mr. L. Martin] that if the Judges
were joined in this check on the laws, they would have a double
negative, since in their expository capacity of Judges they would have
one negative. He would reply that in this capacity they could impede in
one case only, the operation of laws. They could declare an
unconstitutional law void. But with regard to every law however unjust
oppressive or pernicious, which [7] did not come plainly under this
description, they would be under the necessity as Judges to give it a
free course. He wished the further use to be made of the Judges, of
giving aid in preventing every improper law. Their aid will be the more
valuable as they are in the habit and practice of considering laws in
their true principles, and in all their consequences.

Mr. WILSON. The separation of the departments does not require that they
should have separate objects but that they should act separately tho' on
the same objects. It is necessary that the two branches of the
Legislature should be separate and distinct, yet they are both to act
precisely on the same object.

Mr. GERRY had rather give the Executive an absolute negative for its own
defence than thus to blend together the Judiciary & Executive
departments. It will bind them together in an offensive and defensive
alliance agst. the Legislature, and render the latter unwilling to enter
into a contest with them.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS was surprised that any defensive provision for securing
the effectual separation of the departments should be considered as an
improper mixture of them. Suppose that the three powers, were to be
vested in three persons, by compact among themselves; that one was to
have the power of making, another of executing, and a third of judging,
the laws. Would it not be very natural for the two latter after having
settled the partition on paper, to observe, and would not candor oblige
the former to admit, that as a security agst. legislative acts of the
former which might easily be so framed as to undermine the powers of the
two others, the two others ought to be armed with a veto for their own
defence, or at least to have an opportunity of stating their objections
agst. acts of encroachment? And would any one pretend that such a right
tended to blend & confound powers that ought to be separately exercised?
As well might it be said that If three neighbours had three distinct
farms, a right in each to defend his farm agst. his neighbours, tended
to blend the farms together.

Mr. GHORUM. All agree that a check on the Legislature is necessary. But
there are two objections agst. admitting the Judges to share in it which
no observations on the other side seem to obviate. the 1st. is that the
Judges ought to carry into the exposition of the laws no prepossessions
with regard to them. [8] 2d. that as the Judges will outnumber the
Executive, the revisionary check would be thrown entirely out of the
Executive hands, and instead of enabling him to defend himself, would
enable the Judges to sacrifice him.

Mr. WILSON. The proposition is certainly not liable to all the
objections which have been urged agst. it. According [to Mr. Gerry] it
will unite the Executive & Judiciary in an offensive & defensive
alliance agst. the Legislature. According to Mr. Ghorum it will lead to
a subversion of the Executive by the Judiciary influence. To the first
gentleman the answer was obvious; that the joint weight of the two
departments was necessary to balance the single weight of the
Legislature. To the 1st. objection stated by the other Gentleman it
might be answered that supposing the prepossion to mix itself with the
exposition, the evil would be overbalanced by the advantages promised by
the expedient. To the 2d. objection, that such a rule of voting might be
provided in the detail as would guard agst. it.

Mr. RUTLIDGE thought the Judges of all men the most unfit to be
concerned in the revisionary Council. The Judges ought never to give
their opinion on a law till it comes before them. He thought it equally
unnecessary. The Executive could advise with the officers of State, as
of war, finance &c. and avail himself of their information & opinions.

On [8] Question on Mr. Wilson's motion for joining the Judiciary in the
Revision of laws it passed in the negative -- Mas. no. Cont. ay. N. J.
not present. Pa. divd. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay. N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo.
divd. [9] Resol. 10, giving the Ex. a qualified veto, without the
amendt. was then agd. to nem. con. [10]

The motion made by Mr. Madison July 18.

[11] & then postponed, 'that the Judges shd. be nominated by the
Executive & such nominations become appointments unless disagreed to by
2/3 of the 2d. branch of the Legislature," was now resumed.

Mr. MADISON stated as his reasons for the motion. 1. [12] that it
secured the responsibility of the Executive who would in general be more
capable & likely to select fit characters than the Legislature, or even
the 2d. b. of it, who might hide their selfish motives under the number
concerned in the appointment. -- 2. [12] that in case of any flagrant
partiality or error, in the nomination it might be fairly presumed that
2/3 of the 2d. branch would join in putting a negative on it. 3. [12]
that as the 2d. b. was very differently constituted when the appointment
of the Judges was formerly referred to it, and was now to be composed of
equal votes from all the States, the principle of compromise which had
prevailed in other instances required in this that their shd. be a
concurrence of two authorities, in one of which the people, in the other
the States, should be represented. The Executive Magistrate wd. be
considered as a national officer, acting for and equally sympathising
with every part of the U. States. If the 2d. branch alone should have
this power, the Judges might be appointed by a minority of the people,
tho' by a majority, of the States, which could not be justified on any
principle as their proceedings were to relate to the people, rather than
to the States: and as it would moreover throw the appointments entirely
into the hands of ye. Northern States, a perpetual ground of jealousy &
discontent would be furnished to the Southern States.

Mr. PINKNEY was for placing the appointmt. in the 2d. b. exclusively.
The Executive will possess neither the requisite knowledge of
characters, nor confidence of the people for so high a trust.

Mr. RANDOLPH wd. have preferred the mode of appointmt. proposed formerly
by Mr. Ghorum, as adopted in the Constitution of Massts. but thought the
motion depending so great an improvement of the clause as it stands,
that he anxiously wished it success. He laid great stress on the
responsibility of the Executive as a security for fit appointments.
Appointments by the Legislatures have generally resulted from cabal,
from personal regard, or some other consideration than a title derived
from the proper qualifications. The same inconveniencies will
proportionally prevail, if the appointments be be referred to either
branch of the Legislature or to any other authority administered by a
number of individuals.

Mr. ELSEWORTH would prefer a negative in the Executive on a nomination
by the 2d. branch, the negative to be overruled by a concurrence of 2/3
of the 2d. b. to the mode proposed by the motion; but preferred an
absolute appointment by the 2d. branch to either. The Executive will be
regarded by the people with a jealous eye. Every power for augmenting
unnecessarily his influence will be disliked. As he will be stationary
it was not to be supposed he could have a better knowledge of
characters. He will be more open to caresses & intrigues than the
Senate. The right to supersede his nomination will be ideal only. A
nomination under such circumstances will be equivalent to an
appointment.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS supported the motion. 1. [13] The States in their
corporate capacity will frequently have an interest staked on the
determination of the Judges. As in the Senate the States are to vote the
Judges ought not to be appointed by the Senate. Next to the impropriety
of being Judge in one's own cause, is the appointment of the Judge. 2.
[13] It had been said the Executive would be uninformed of characters.
The reverse was ye. truth. The Senate will be so. They must take the
character of candidates from the flattering pictures drawn by their
friends. The Executive in the necessary intercourse with every part of
the U. S. required by the nature of his administration, will or may have
the best possible information. 3. [13] It had been said that a jealousy
would be entertained of the Executive. If the Executive can be safely
trusted with the command of the army, there cannot surely be any
reasonable ground of Jealousy in the present case. He added that if the
objections agst. an appointment of the Executive by the Legislature, had
the weight that had been allowed there must be some weight in the
objection to an appointment of the Judges by the Legislature or by any
part of it.

Mr. GERRY. The appointment of the Judges like every other part of the
Constitution shd. be so modelled as to give satisfaction both to the
people and to the States. The mode under consideration will give
satisfaction to neither. He could not conceive that the Executive could
be as well informed of characters throughout the Union, as the Senate.
It appeared to him also a strong objection that 2/3 of the Senate were
required to reject a nomination of the Executive. The Senate would be
constituted in the same manner as Congress. And the appointments of
Congress have been generally good.

Mr. MADISON, observed that he was not anxious that 2/3 should be
necessary to disagree to a nomination. He had given this form to his
motion chiefly to vary it the more clearly from one which had just been
rejected. He was content to obviate the objection last made, and
accordingly so varied the motion as to let a majority reject.

Col. MASON found it his duty to differ from his colleagues in their
opinions & reasonings on this subject. Notwithstanding the form of the
proposition by which the appointment seemed to be divided between the
Executive & Senate, the appointment was substantially vested in the
former alone. The false complaisance which usually prevails in such
cases will prevent a disagreement to the first nominations. He
considered the appointment by the Executive as a dangerous prerogative.
It might even give him an influence over the Judiciary department
itself. He did not think the difference of interest between the Northern
and Southern States could be properly brought into this argument. It
would operate & require some precautions in the case of regulating
navigation, commerce & imposts; but he could not see that it had any
connection with the Judiciary department.

On the question, the motion now being [14] that the executive should
nominate, & such nominations should become appointments unless disagreed
to by the Senate" Mas. ay. Ct. no. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. no. Va. ay. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [15]

On [16] question for agreeing to the clause as it stands by which the
Judges are to be appointed by [16] 2d. branch Mas. no. Ct. ay. Pa. no.
Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. no. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [17]

Adjourned

___________

1. The words "the tenth Resolution" are substituted for "Resoln. 10."

2. The word "those" is substituted in the transcript for "these."

3. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

4. The word "passing" is substituted in the transcript for "framing."

5. The word "that" is substituted in the transcript for "which."

6. The word "proper" is omitted in the transcript.

7. The word "that" is substituted in the transcript for "which."

8. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

9. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, Maryland, Virginia,
aye -- 3; Massachusetts, Delaware, North Carolina, South Carolina, no --
4; Pennsylvania, Georgia, divided; New Jersey, not present."

10. This sentence has been changed in the transcript to read as follows:
"The tenth Resolution, giving the Executive a qualified veto, requiring
two -- thirds of each branch of the Legislature to overrule it was then
agreed to nem. con."

11. The date "July 18" is changed in the transcript to "on the
eighteenth of July."

12. The figures "1," "2" and "3" are changed to "first," "Secondly" and
"Thirdly" in the transcript.

13. The figures "1," "2" and "3" are changed to "First," "Secondly" and
"Thirdly" in the transcript.

14. The words "now being" are transposed to read "being now" in the
transcript.

15. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Pennsylvania,
Virginia, aye -- 3; Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina,
South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 6."

16. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

17. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland,
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 6; Massachusetts,
Pennsylvania, Virginia, no -- 3; so it passed in the affirmative."


