MONDAY  SEPr 10.  1787 [1]  IN CONVENTION

Mr. GERRY moved to reconsider Art XIX. viz. "On the application of the
Legislatures of two thirds of the States in the Union, for an amendment
of this Constitution, the Legislature of the U. S. shall call a
Convention for that purpose." [see Aug. 6.] [2] This Constitution he
said is to be paramount to the State Constitutions. It follows, hence,
from this article that two thirds of the States may obtain a Convention,
a majority of which can bind the Union to innovations that may subvert
the State-Constitutions altogether. He asked whether this was a
situation proper to be run into.

Mr. HAMILTON 2ded. the motion, but he said with a different view from
Mr. Gerry. He did not object to the consequence stated by Mr. Gerry.
There was no greater evil in subjecting the people of the U. S. to the
major voice than the people of a particular State. It had been wished by
many and was much to have been desired that an easier mode for [3]
introducing amendments had been provided by the articles of [4]
Confederation. It was equally desireable now that an easy mode should be
established for supplying defects which will probably appear in the New
System. The mode proposed was not adequate. The State Legislatures will
not apply for alterations but with a view to increase their own powers.
The National Legislature will be the first to perceive and will be most
sensible to the necessity of amendments, and ought also to be empowered,
whenever two thirds of each branch should concur to call a Convention.
There could be no danger in giving this power, as the people would
finally decide in the case.

Mr. MADISON remarked on the vagueness of the terms, "call a Convention
for the purpose," as sufficient reason for reconsidering the article.
How was a Convention to be formed? by what rule decide? what the force
of its acts?

On the motion of Mr. Gerry to reconsider

N. H. divd. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay.
N. C. ay. S. C. ay. GEO ay. [5]

Mr. SHERMAN moved to add to the article "or the Legislature may propose
amendments to the several States for their approbation, but no
amendments shall be binding until consented to by the several States."

Mr. GERRY 2ded. the motion

Mr. WILSON moved to insert "two thirds of" before the words "several
States" -- on which amendment to the motion of Mr. Sherman

N. H. ay. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [6]

Mr. WILSON then moved to insert "three fourths of" before "the several
Sts" which was agreed to nem: con:

Mr. MADISON moved to postpone the consideration of the amended
proposition in order to take up the following,

"The Legislature of the U. S. whenever two thirds of both Houses shall
deem necessary, or on the application of two thirds of the Legislatures
of the several States, shall propose amendments to this Constitution,
which shall be valid to all intents and purposes as part thereof, when
the same shall have been ratified by three fourths at least of the
Legislatures of the several States, or by Conventions in three fourths
thereof, as one or the other mode of ratification may be proposed by the
Legislature of the U S:" [*7]

Mr. HAMILTON 2ded. the motion.

Mr. RUTLIDGE said he never could agree to give a power by which the
articles relating to slaves might be altered by the States not
interested in that property and prejudiced against it. In order to
obviate this objection, these words were added to the proposition: [*7]
"provided that no amendments which may be made prior to the year 1808,
shall in any manner affect the 4 & 5 sections of the VII article" -- The
postponement being agreed to,

On the question on the proposition of Mr. Madison & Mr. Hamilton as
amended

N. H. divd. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay.
N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo ay. [9]

Mr. GERRY moved to reconsider art: XXI and XXII. from the latter of
which "for the approbation of Congs." had been struck out. He objected
to proceeding to change the Government without the approbation of
Congress, as being improper and giving just umbrage to that body. He
repeated his objections also to an annulment of the confederation with
so little scruple or formality.

Mr. HAMILTON concurred with Mr. Gerry as to the indecorum of not
requiring the approbation of Congress. He considered this as a necessary
ingredient in the transaction. He thought it wrong also to allow nine
States as provided by art XXI. to institute a new Government on the
ruins of the existing one. He Wd. propose as a better modification of
the two articles (XXI & XXII) that the plan should be sent to Congress
in order that the same if approved by them, may be communicated to the
State Legislatures, to the end that they may refer it to State
Conventions; each Legislature declaring that if the Convention of the
State should think the plan ought to take effect among nine ratifying
States, the same shd. take effect accordingly.

Mr. GORHAM. Some States will say that nine States shall be sufficient to
establish the plan, others will require unanimity for the purpose. And
the different and conditional ratifications will defeat the plan
altogether.

Mr. HAMILTON. No Convention convinced of the necessity of the plan will
refuse to give it effect on the adoption by nine States. He thought this
mode less exceptionable than the one proposed in the article, and [10]
would attain the same end.

Mr. FITZIMMONS remarked that the words "for their approbation" had been
struck out in order to save Congress from the necessity of an Act
inconsistent with the Articles of Confederation under which they held
their authority.

Mr. RANDOLPH declared, if no change should be made in the [11] this part
of the plan, he should be obliged to dissent from the whole of it. He
had from the beginning he said been convinced that radical changes in
the system of the Union were necessary. Under this conviction he had
brought forward a set of republican propositions as the basis and
outline of a reform. These Republican propositions had however, much to
his regret, been widely, and in his opinion, irreconcileably departed
from. In this state of things it was his idea and he accordingly meant
to propose, that the State Conventions shd. be at liberty to offer
amendments to the plan; and that these should be submitted to a second
General Convention, with full power to settle the Constitution finally.
He did not expect to succeed in this proposition, but the discharge of
his duty in making the attempt, would give quiet to his own mind.

Mr. WILSON was against a reconsideration for any of the purposes which
had been mentioned.

Mr. KING thought it would be more respectful to Congress to submit the
plan generally to them; than in such a form as expressly and necessarily
to require their approbation or disapprobation. The assent of nine
States be considered as sufficient; and that it was more proper to make
this a part of the Constitution itself, than to provide for it by a
supplemental or distinct recommendation.

Mr. GERRY urged the indecency and pernicious tendency of dissolving in
so slight a manner, the solemn obligations of the articles of
confederation. If nine out of thirteen can dissolve the compact, Six out
of nine will be just as able to dissolve the new one hereafter.

Mr. SHERMAN was in favor of Mr. King's idea of submitting the plan
generally to Congress. He thought nine States ought to be made
sufficient: but that it would be best [12] to make it a separate act and
in some such form as that intimated by Col: Hamilton, than to make it a
particular article of the Constitution.

On the question for reconsidering the two articles, XXI & XXII -- 

N. H. divd. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay.
N. C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. ay. [13]

Mr. HAMILTON then moved to postpone art XXI in order to take up the
following, containing the ideas he had above expressed, viz Resolved
that the foregoing plan of a Constitution be transmitted to the U. S. in
Congress assembled, in order that if the same shall be agreed to by
them, it may be communicated to the Legislatures of the several States,
to the end that they may provide for its final ratification by referring
the same to the Consideration of a Convention of Deputies in each State
to be chosen by the people thereof, and that it be recommended to the
said Legislatures in their respective acts for organizing such
convention to declare, that if the said Convention shall approve of the
said Constitution, such approbation shall be binding and conclusive upon
the State, and further that if the said Convention should be of opinion
that the same upon the assent of any nine States thereto, ought to take
effect between the States so assenting, such opinion shall thereupon be
also binding upon such State, and the said Constitution shall take
effect between the States assenting thereto"

Mr. GERRY 2ded. the motion.

Mr. WILSON. This motion being seconded, it is necessary now to speak
freely. He expressed in strong terms his disapprobation of the expedient
proposed, particularly the suspending the plan of the Convention on the
approbation of Congress. He declared it to be worse than folly to rely
on the concurrence of the Rhode Island members of Congs. in the plan.
Maryland has voted on this floor; for requiring the unanimous assent of
the 13 States to the proposed change in the federal System. N. York has
not been represented for a long time past in the Convention. Many
individual deputies from other States have spoken much against the plan.
Under these circusmtances can it be safe to make the assent of Congress
necessary. After spending four or five months in the laborious & arduous
task of forming a Government for our Country, we are ourselves at the
close throwing insuperable obstacles in the way of its success.

Mr. CLYMER thought that the mode proposed by Mr. Hamilton would fetter &
embarrass Congs. as much as the original one, since it equally involved
a breach of the articles of Confederation.

Mr. KING concurred with Mr. Clymer. If Congress can accede to one mode,
they can to the other. If the approbation of Congress be made necessary,
and they should not approve, the State Legislatures will not propose the
plan to Conventions; or if the States themselves are to provide that
nine States shall suffice to establish the System, that provision will
be omitted, every thing will go into confusion, and all our labor be
lost.

Mr. RUTLIDGE viewed the matter in the same light with Mr. King. On the
question to postpone in order to take up Col: Hamilton's motion

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [14]

A Question being then taken on the article XXI. It was agreed to
unanimously.

Col: HAMILTON withdrew the remainder of the motion to postpone art XXII,
observing that his purpose was defeated by the vote just given;

Mr. WILLIAMSON & Mr. GERRY moved to re-instate the words "for the
approbation of Congress" in art: XXII which was disagreed to nem: con:

Mr. RANDOLPH took this opportunity to state his objections to the
System. They turned on the Senate's being made the Court of Impeachment
for trying the Executive -- on the necessity of 3/4 instead of 2/3 of
each house to overrule the negative of the President -- on the smallness
of the number of the Representative branch, -- on the want of limitation
to a standing army -- on the general clause concerning necessary and
proper laws -- on the want of some particular restraint on navigation
acts -- on the power to lay duties on exports -- on the Authority of the
General Legislature to interpose on the application of the Executives of
the States -- on the want of a more definite boundary between the
General & State Legislatures -- and between the General and State
Judiciaries -- on the the unqualified power of the President to pardon
treasons -- on the want of some limit to the power of the Legislature in
regulating their own compensations. With these difficulties in his mind,
what course he asked was he to pursue? Was he to promote the
establishment of a plan which he verily believed would end in Tyranny?
He was unwilling he said to impede the wishes and Judgment of the
Convention, but he must keep himself free, in case he should be honored
with a seat in the Convention of his State, to act according to the
dictates of his judgment. The only mode in which his embarrassments
could be removed, was that of submitting the plan to Congs. to go from
them to the State Legislatures, and from these to State Conventions
having power to adopt reject or amend; the process to close with another
General Convention with full power to adopt or reject the alterations
proposed by the State Conventions, and to establish finally the
Government. He accordingly proposed a Resolution to this effect.

DOCr. FRANKLIN 2ded. the motion

Col: MASON urged & obtained that the motion should lie on the table for
a day or two to see what steps might be taken with regard to the parts
of the system objected to by Mr. Randolph.

Mr. PINKNEY moved "that it be an instruction to the Committee for
revising the stile and arrangement of the articles agreed on, to prepare
an Address to the People, to accompany the present Constitution, and to
be laid with the same before the U. States in Congress."

[*15] The motion itself was referred to the Committee, nem: con:

[*15] Mr. RANDOLPH moved to refer to the Committee also a motion
relating to pardons in cases of Treason -- which was agreed to nem: con:

Adjourned

___________

1. The year "1787" is omitted in the transcript.

2. In the transcript the date reads: "the sixth of August."

3. The word "of" is found in the transcript in place of "for."

4. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

5. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 9; New Jersey, no -- 1; New Hampshire,
divided."

6. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, aye -- 5; Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
Jersey, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 6."

*7. The Printed Journal makes the succeeding proviso as to sections 4 &
5. of art: VII [8] moved by Mr. Rutlidge, part of the proposition of Mr.
Madison.

8. The words "the fourth and fifth sections of the seventh article" are
substituted in the transcript for "sections 4 & 5. of art: VII."

9. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 9; Delaware, no -- 1; New Hampshire, divided."

10. The words "while it" are substituted in the transcript for "and."

11. The word "the" is omitted in the transcript.

12. The word "best" is crossed out in the transcript and "better" is
written above it.

13. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New Jersey,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 7;
Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, no -- 3; New Hampshire,
divided."

14. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, aye -- 1; New
Hampshire, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 10."

*15. These motions [16] not entered in the printed Journal.

16. The word "are" is here inserted in the transcript.


