SATURDAY  JUNE 2d [1]   IN COMMITTEE OF WHOLE

*[Insert the words noted here] [2] *William Saml. Johnson from
Connecticut, Daniel of St. Thomas Jennifer, from Maryd. & John Lansing
Jr. from N. York, took their seats.

It was movd. & 2ded. to postpone ye Resol: of Mr. Randolph respecting
the Executive, in order to take up the 2d. branch of the Legislature;
which being negatived by Mas: Con: Del: Virg: N. C. S. C. Geo: [3] agst.
N. Y. Pena. Maryd. [3]

The mode of appointg ye Executive was resumed.

Mr. WILSON made the following motion, to be substituted for the mode
proposed by Mr. Randolph's resolution, "that the Executive Magistracy
shall be elected in the following manner: That the States be divided
into ______ districts: & that the persons qualified to vote in each
district for members of the first branch of the national Legislature
elect ______ members for their respective districts to be electors of
the Executive magistracy, that the said Electors of the Executive
magistracy meet at ______ and they or any ______ of them so met shall
proceed to elect by ballot, but not out of their own body ______ person
in whom the Executive authority of the national Government shall be
vested."

Mr. WILSON repeated his arguments in favor of an election without the
intervention of the States. He supposed too that this mode would produce
more confidence among the people in the first magistrate, than an
election by the national Legislature.

Mr. GERRY, opposed the election by the national legislature. There would
be a constant intrigue kept up for the appointment. The Legislature &
the candidates wd. bargain & play into one another's hands, votes would
be given by the former under promises or expectations from the latter,
of recompensing them by services to members of the Legislature or to [4]
their friends. He liked the principle of Mr. Wilson's motion, but fears
it would alarm & give a handle to the State partisans, as tending to
supersede altogether the State authorities. He thought the Community not
yet ripe for stripping the States of their powers, even such as might
not be requisite for local purposes. He was for waiting till people
should feel more the necessity of it. He seemed to prefer the taking the
suffrages of the States instead of Electors, or letting the Legislatures
nominate, and the electors appoint. He was not clear that the people
ought to act directly even in the choice of electors, being too little
informed of personal characters in large districts, and liable to
deceptions.

Mr. WILLIAMSON could see no advantage in the introduction of Electors
chosen by the people who would stand in the same relation to them as the
State Legislatures, whilst the expedient would be attended with great
trouble and expence. On the question for agreeing to Mr. Wilson's
substitute, it was negatived: Massts. no. Cont. no. N. Y. no. [*5] Pa.
ay. Del. no. Mard. ay. Virga. no. N. C. no. S. C. no. Geoa. no. [6]

On the question for electing the Executive by the national Legislature
for the term of seven years, it was agreed to Massts. ay. Cont. ay. N.
Y. ay. Pena. no. Del. ay. Maryd. no. Va. ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo.
ay. [7]

DOCr. FRANKLIN moved that what related to the compensation for the
services of the Executive be postponed, in order to substitute -- "whose
necessary expences shall be defrayed, but who shall receive no salary,
stipend fee or reward whatsoever for their services" -- He said that
being very sensible of the effect of age on his memory, he had been
unwilling to trust to that for the observations which seemed to support
his motion, and had reduced them to writing, that he might with the
permission of the Committee read instead of speaking them.

Mr. WILSON made an offer to read the paper, which was accepted -- The
following is a literal copy of the paper.

Sir.
It is with reluctance that I rise to express a disapprobation of any one
article of the plan for which we are so much obliged to the honorable
gentleman who laid it before us. From its first reading I have borne a
good will to it, and in general wished it success. In this particular of
salaries to the Executive branch I happen to differ; and as my opinion
may appear new and chimerical, it is only from a persuasion that it is
right, and from a sense of duty that I hazard it. The Committee will
judge of my reasons when they have heard them, and their judgment may
possibly change mine. -- I think I see inconveniences in the appointment
of salaries; I see none in refusing them, but on the contrary, great
advantages.

Sir, there are two passions which have a powerful influence on the
affairs of men. These are ambition and avarice; the love of power, and
the love of money. Separately each of these has great force in prompting
men to action; but when united in view of the same object, they have in
many minds the most violent effects. Place before the eyes of such men,
a post of honour that shall be at the same time a place of profit, and
they will move heaven and earth to obtain it. The vast number of such
places it is that renders the British Government so tempestuous. The
struggles for them are the true sources of all those factions which are
perpetually dividing the Nation, distracting its Councils, hurrying
sometimes into fruitless & mischievous wars, and often compelling a
submission to dishonorable terms of peace. And of what kind are the men
that will strive for this profitable pre-eminence, through all the
bustle of cabal, the heat of contention, the infinite mutual abuse of
parties, tearing to pieces the best of characters? It will not be the
wise and moderate; the lovers of peace and good order, the men fittest
for the trust. It will be the bold and the violent, the men of strong
passions and indefatigable activity in their selfish pursuits. These
will thrust themselves into your Government and be your rulers. -- And
these too will be mistaken in the expected happiness of their situation:
For their vanquished competitors of the same spirit, and from the same
motives will perpetually be endeavouring to distress their
administration, thwart their measures, and render them odious to the
people.

Besides these evils, Sir, tho' we may set out in the beginning with
moderate salaries, we shall find that such will not be of long
continuance. Reasons will never be wanting for proposed augmentations.
And there will always be a party for giving more to the rulers, that the
rulers may be able in return to give more to them. -- Hence as all
history informs us, there has been in every State & Kingdom a constant
kind of warfare between the governing & governed: the one striving to
obtain more for its support, and the other to pay less. And this has
alone occasioned great convulsions, actual civil wars, ending either in
dethroning of the Princes, or enslaving of the people. Generally indeed
the ruling power carries its point, the revenues of princes constantly
increasing, and we see that they are never satisfied, but always in want
of more. The more the people are discontented with the oppression of
taxes; the greater need the prince has of money to distribute among his
partizans and pay the troops that are to suppress all resistance, and
enable him to plunder at pleasure. There is scarce a king in a hundred
who would not, if he could, follow the example of Pharoah, get first all
the peoples money, then all their lands, and then make them and their
children servants for ever. It will be said, that we don't propose to
establish Kings. I know it. But there is a natural inclination in
mankind to Kingly Government. It sometimes relieves them from
Aristocratic domination. They had rather have one tyrant than five
hundred. It gives more of the appearance of equality among Citizens, and
that they like. I am apprehensive therefore, perhaps too apprehensive,
that the Government of these States, may in future times, end in a
Monarchy. But this Catastrophe I think may be long delayed, if in our
proposed System we do not sow the seeds of contention, faction & tumult,
by making our posts of honor, places of profit. If we do, I fear that
tho' we do employ at first a number, and not a single person, the number
will in time be set aside, it will only nourish the foetus of a King, as
the honorable gentleman from Virginia very aptly expressed it, and a
King will the sooner be set over us.

It may be imagined by some that this is an Utopian Idea, and that we can
never find men to serve us in the Executive department, without paying
them well for their services. I conceive this to be a mistake. Some
existing facts present themselves to me, which incline me to a contrary
opinion. The high Sheriff of a County in England is an honorable office,
but it is not a profitable one. It is rather expensive and therefore not
sought for. But yet, it is executed and well executed, and usually by
some of the principal Gentlemen of the County. In France, the office of
Counsellor or Member of their Judiciary Parliaments is more honorable.
It is therefore purchased at a high price: There are indeed fees on the
law proceedings, which are divided among them, but these fees do not
amount to more than three per Cent on the sum paid for the place.
Therefore as legal interest is there at five per Ct. they in fact pay
two per Ct. for being allowed to do the Judiciary business of the
Nation, which is at the same time entirely exempt from the burden of
paying them any salaries for their services. I do not however mean to
recommend this as an eligible mode for our Judiciary department. I only
bring the instance to shew that the pleasure of doing good & serving
their Country and the respect such conduct entitles them to, are
sufficient motives with some minds to give up a great portion of their
time to the public, without the mean inducement of pecuniary
satisfaction.

Another instance is that of a respectable Society who have made the
experiment, and practised it with success more than an [8] hundred
years. I mean the Quakers. It is an established rule with them, that
they are not to go to law; but in their controversies they must apply to
their monthly, quarterly and yearly meetings. Committees of these sit
with patience to hear the parties, and spend much time in composing
their differences. In doing this, they are supported by a sense of duty,
and the respect paid to usefulness. It is honorable to be so employed,
but it was [9] never made profitable by salaries, fees, or perquisites.
And indeed in all cases of public service the less the profit the
greater the honor.

To bring the matter nearer home, have we not seen, the great and most
important of our offices, that of General of our armies executed for
eight years together without the smallest salary, by a Patriot whom I
will not now offend by any other praise; and this through fatigues and
distresses in common with the other brave men his military friends &
Companions, and the constant anxieties peculiar to his station? And
shall we doubt finding three or four men in all the U. States, with
public spirit enough to bear sitting in peaceful Council for perhaps an
equal term, merely to preside over our civil concerns, and see that our
laws are duly executed. Sir, I have a better opinion of our Country. I
think we shall never be without a sufficient number of wise and good men
to undertake and execute well and faithfully the office in question.

Sir, The saving of the salaries that may at first be proposed is not an
object with me. The subsequent mischiefs of proposing them are what I
apprehend. And therefore it is, that I move the amendment. If it is not
seconded or accepted I must be contented with the satisfaction of having
delivered my opinion frankly and done my duty.

The motion was seconded by Col. HAMILTON with the view he said merely of
bringing so respectable a proposition before the Committee, and which
was besides enforced by arguments that had a certain degree of weight.
No debate ensued, and the proposition was postponed for the
consideration of the members. It was treated with great respect, but
rather for the author of it, than from any apparent conviction of its
expediency or practicability.

Mr. DICKENSON moved "that the Executive be made removeable by the
National Legislature on the request of a majority of the Legislatures of
individual States." It was necessary he said to place the power of
removing somewhere. He did not like the plan of impeaching the Great
officers of State. He did not know how provision could be made for
removal of them in a better mode than that which he had proposed. He had
no idea of abolishing the State Governments as some gentlemen seemed
inclined to do. The happiness of this Country in his opinion required
considerable powers to be left in the hands of the States.

Mr. BEDFORD seconded the motion.

Mr. SHERMAN contended that the National Legislature should have power to
remove the Executive at pleasure.

Mr. MASON. Some mode of displacing an unfit magistrate is rendered
indispensable by the fallibility of those who choose, as well as by the
corruptibility of the man chosen. He opposed decidedly the making the
Executive the mere creature of the Legislature as a violation of the
fundamental principle of good Government.

Mr. MADISON & Mr. WILSON observed that it would leave an equality of
agency in the small with the great States; that it would enable a
minority of the people to prevent ye. removal of an officer who had
rendered himself justly criminal in the eyes of a majority; that it
would open a door for intrigues agst. him in States where his
administration tho' just might be unpopular, and might tempt him to pay
court to particular States whose leading partizans he might fear, or
wish to engage as his partizans. They both thought it bad policy to
introduce such a mixture of the State authorities, where their agency
could be otherwise supplied.

Mr. DICKENSON considered the business as so important that no man ought
to be silent or reserved. He went into a discourse of some length, the
sum of which was, that the Legislative, Executive, & Judiciary
departments ought to be made as independent. as possible; but that such
an Executive as some seemed to have in contemplation was not consistent
with a republic: that a firm Executive could only exist in a limited
monarchy. In the British Govt. itself the weight of the Executive arises
from the attachments which the Crown draws to itself, & not merely from
the force of its prerogatives. In place of these attachments we must
look out for something else. One source of stability is the double
branch of the Legislature. The division of the Country into distinct
States formed the other principal source of stability. This division
ought therefore to be maintained, and considerable powers to be left
with the States. This was the ground of his consolation for the future
fate of his Country. Without this, and in case of a consolidation of the
States into one great Republic, we might read its fate in the history of
smaller ones. A limited Monarchy he considered as one of the best
Governments in the world. It was not certain that the same blessings
were derivable from any other form. It was certain that equal blessings
had never yet been derived from any of the republican form. A limited
Monarchy however was out of the question. The spirit of the times -- the
state of our affairs, forbade the experiment, if it were desireable. Was
it possible moreover in the nature of things to introduce it even if
these obstacles were less insuperable. A House of Nobles was essential
to such a Govt. could these be created by a breath, or by a stroke of
the pen? No. They were the growth of ages, and could only arise under a
complication of circumstances none of which existed in this Country. But
though a form the most perfect perhaps in itself be unattainable, we
must not despair. If antient republics have been found to flourish for a
moment only & then vanish for ever, it only proves that they were badly
constituted; and that we ought to seek for every remedy for their
diseases. One of these remedies he conceived to be the accidental lucky
division of this Country into distinct States; a division which some
seemed desirous to abolish altogether. As to the point of representation
in the national Legislature as it might affect States of different
sizes, he said it must probably end in mutual concession. He hoped that
each State would retain an equal voice at least in one branch of the
National Legislature, and supposed the sums paid within each State would
form a better ratio for the other branch than either the number of
inhabitants or the quantum of property. A motion being made to strike
out "on request by a majority of the Legislatures of the individual
States" and rejected, Connecticut, S. Carol: & Geo. being ay, the rest
no: the question was taken -- 

On Mr. DICKENSON'S motion for making [10] Executive removeable by [10]
Natl.; Legislature at [10] request of [11] majority of State
Legislatures [12] was also rejected -- all the States being in the
negative Except Delaware which gave an affirmative vote.

The Question for making ye. Executive ineligible after seven years, [13]
was next taken, and agreed to:

Massts.; ay. Cont.; no. N. Y. ay. Pa. divd. Del. ay. Maryd. ay. Va. ay.
N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. no: [*14, 15]

Mr. WILLIAMSON 2ded. by Mr. DAVIE moved to add to the last Clause, the
words -- "and to be removeable on impeachment & conviction of
mal-practice or neglect of duty" -- which was agreed to.

Mr. RUTLIDGE & Mr. C. PINKNEY moved that the blank for the no. of
persons in the Executive be filled with the words "one person." He
supposed the reasons to be so obvious & conclusive in favor of one that
no member would oppose the motion.

Mr. RANDOLPH opposed it with great earnestness, declaring that he should
not do justice to the Country which sent him if he were silently to
suffer the establishmt. of a Unity in the Executive department. He felt
an opposition to it which he believed he should continue to feel as long
as he lived. He urged 1. that the permanent temper of the people was
adverse to the very semblance of Monarchy. 2. [17] that a unity was
unnecessary a plurality being equally competent to all the objects of
the department. 3. [17] that the necessary confidence would never be
reposed in a single Magistrate. 4. [17] that the appointments would
generally be in favor of some inhabitant near the center of the
Community, and consequently the remote parts would not be on an equal
footing. He was in favor of three members of the Executive to be drawn
from different portions of the Country.

Mr. BUTLER contended strongly for a single magistrate as most likely to
answer the purpose of the remote parts. If one man should be appointed
he would be responsible to the whole, and would be impartial to its
interests. If three or more should be taken from as many districts,
there would be a constant struggle for local advantages. In Military
matters this would be particularly mischievous. He said his opinion on
this point had been formed under the opportunity he had had of seeing
the manner in which a plurality of military heads [18] distracted Holland
when threatened with invasion by the imperial troops. One man was for
directing the force to the defence of this part, another to that part of
the Country, just as he happened to be swayed by prejudice or interest.

The motion was then postpd. the Committee rose & the House Adjd.

___________

1. The year "1787" is here inserted in the transcript.

2. Madison's direction is omitted in the transcript.

3. In the transcript the figures "7" and "3" are inserted after the
States Georgia and Maryland, respectively.

4. The word "to" is omitted in the transcript.

*5. N.Y. in the printed Journal -- "divided."

6. In the transcript the vote reads: "Pennsylvania, Maryland, aye -- 2;
Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York, [5] Delaware, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8."

7. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
York, Delaware, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye
-- 8; Pennsylvania, Maryland, no -- 2."

8. The word "one" is substituted in the transcript for "an."

9. The word "is" is substituted in the transcript for "was."

10. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

11. The word "a" is here inserted in the transcript.

12. The word "which" is here inserted in the transcript.

13. The phrase "ineligible after seven years" is italicized in the
transcript.

*14. In [16] printed Journal Geo. ay.

15. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, New York,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, aye -- 7;
Connecticut, Georgia, [14] no -- 2; Pennsylvania, divided."

16. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

17. The figures "1," "2," "3" and "4" are changed to "first,"
"secondly," "thirdly" and "fourthly."

18. The transcript italicizes the phrase "plurality of military heads."


