WEDNESDAY  JUNE 13.   IN COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE

Resol: 9 [1] being resumed

The latter parts of the clause relating to the jurisdiction of the
Natil. tribunals, was struck out nem. con in order to leave full room
for their organization.

Mr. RANDOLPH & Mr. MADISON, then moved the following resolution
respecting a National Judiciary, viz "that the jurisdiction of the
National Judiciary shall extend to cases, which respect the collection
of the national revenue, impeachments of any national officers, and
questions which involve the national peace and harmony" which was agreed
to.

Mr. PINKNEY & Mr. SHERMAN moved to insert after the words "one supreme
tribunal" the words "the Judges of which to be appointed by the national
Legislature."

Mr. MADISON, objected to an appt. by the whole Legislature. Many of them
were [2] incompetent Judges of the requisite qualifications. They were
too much influenced by their partialities. The candidate who was
present, who had displayed a talent for business in the legislative
field, who had perhaps assisted ignorant members in business of their
own, or of their Constituents, or used other winning means, would
without any of the essential qualifications for an expositor of the laws
prevail over a competitor not having these recommendations, but
possessed of every necessary accomplishment. He proposed that the
appointment should be made by the Senate, which as a less numerous &
more select body, would be more competent judges, and which was
sufficiently numerous to justify such a confidence in them.

Mr. SHARMAN & Mr. PINKNEY withdrew their motion, and the appt. by the
Senate was agd. to nem. con.

Mr. GERRY. moved to restrain the Senatorial branch from originating
money bills. The other branch was more immediately the representatives
of the people, and it was a maxim that the people ought to hold the
purse-strings. If the Senate should be allowed to originate such bills,
they wd. repeat the experiment, till chance should furnish a sett of
representatives in the other branch who will fall into their snares.

Mr. BUTLER saw no reason for such a discrimination. We were always
following the British Constitution when the reason of it did not apply.
There was no analogy between the H. of Lords and the body proposed to be
established. If the Senate should be degraded by any such
discriminations, the best men would be apt to decline serving in it in
favor of the other branch. And it will lead the latter into the practice
of tacking other clauses to money bills.

Mr. MADISON observed that the Commentators on the Brit: Const: had not
yet agreed on the reason of the restriction on the H. of L. in money
bills. Certain it was there could be no similar reason in the case
before us. The Senate would be the representatives of the people as well
as the 1st. branch. If they sd. have any dangerous influence over it,
they would easily prevail on some member of the latter to originate the
bill they wished to be passed. As the Senate would be generally a more
capable sett of men, it wd. be wrong to disable them from any
preparation of the business, especially of that which was most
important, and in our republics, worse prepared than any other. The
Gentleman in pursuance of his principle ought to carry the restraint to
the amendment, as well as the originating of money bills, since, an
addition of a given sum wd. be equivalent to a distinct proposition of
it.

Mr. KING differed from Mr. GERRY, and concurred in the objections to the
proposition.

Mr. READ favored the proposition, but would not extend the restraint to
the case of amendments.

Mr. PINKNEY thinks the question premature. If the Senate shd. be formed
on the same proportional representation as it stands at present, they sd
have equal power, otherwise if a different principle sd. be introduced.

Mr. SHERMAN. As both branches must concur, there can be no danger
whichever way the Senate [3] be formed. We establish two branches in
order to get more wisdom, which is particularly needed in the finance
business -- The Senate bear their share of the taxes, and are also the
representatives of the people. What a man does by another, he does by
himself is a maxim. In Cont. both branches can originate in all cases,
and it has been found safe & convenient. Whatever might have been the
reason of the rule as to The H. of Lords, it is clear that no good
arises from it now even there.

Genl. PINKNEY. This distinction prevails in S. C. & has been a source of
pernicious disputes between ye. 2 branches. The Constitution is now
evaded, by informal schedules of amendments handed from ye. Senate to
the other House.

Mr. WILLIAMSON wishes for a question chiefly to prevent re-discussion.
The restriction will have one advantage, it will oblige some member in
[4] lower branch to move, & people can then mark him.

On the question for excepting money bills as propd. by Mr. Gerry, Mass.
no. Cont. no. N. Y. ay. N. J. no. Del. ay. Md. no. Va. ay. N. C. no. S.
C. no. Geo. no. [5]

[6] Committee rose & Mr. GHORUM made report, which was postponed till
tomorrow, to give an opportunity for other plans to be proposed. The
report was in the words following:

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE OF WHOLE ON Mr. RANDOLPH'S PROPOSITIONS [7]

1. Resd. that it is the opinion of this Committee that a National
Governmt. ought to be established, consisting of a supreme Legislative,
Executive & Judiciary.

2. Resold. that the National Legislature ought to consist of two
branches.

3. Resd. that the members of the first branch of the National
Legislature ought to be elected by the people of the several States for
the term of three years, to receive fixed Stipends by which they may be
compensated for the devotion of their time to [6] public service, to be
paid out of the National Treasury: to be ineligible to any office
established by a particular State, or under the authority of the U.
States, (except those peculiarly belonging to the functions of the first
branch), during the term of service, and under the national Government
for the space of one year after its expiration.

4. Resd. that the members of the second branch of the Natl. Legislature
ought to be chosen by the individual Legislatures, to be of the age of
30 years at least, to hold their offices for a term sufficient to ensure
their independency, [8] namely, seven years, to receive fixed stipends
by which they may be compensated for the devotion of their time to [6]
public service to be paid out of the National Treasury; to be ineligible
to any office established by a particular State, or under the authority
of the U. States, (except those peculiarly belonging to the functions of
the second branch) during the term of service, and under the Natl. Govt.
for the space of one year after its expiration.

5. Resd. that each branch ought to possess the right of originating Acts

6. Resd. that the Natl. Legislature ought to be empowered to enjoy the
Legislative rights vested in Congs. by the Confederation, and moreover
to legislate in all cases to which the separate States are incompetent;
or in which the harmony of the U. S. may be interrupted by the exercise
of individual legislation; to negative all laws passed by the several
States contravening in the opinion of the National Legislature the
articles of Union, or any treaties subsisting under the authority of the
Union.

7. Resd. that the rights of suffrage in the 1st. branch of the National
Legislature, ought not to be according to the rule established in the
articles of confederation but according to some equitable ratio of
representation, namely, in proportion to the whole number of white &
other free citizens & inhabitants, of every age sex and condition,
including those bound to servitude for a term of years, & three fifths
of all other persons, not comprehended in the foregoing description,
except Indians not paying taxes in each State:

8. Resolved that the right of suffrage in the 2d. branch of the National
Legislature ought to be according to the rule established for the first.

9. Resolved that a National Executive be instituted to consist of a
single person, to be chosen by the Natil. Legislature for the term of
seven years, with power to carry into execution the national laws, to
appoint to offices in cases not otherwise provided for -- to be
ineligible a second time, & to be removeable on impeachment and
conviction of malpractices or neglect of duty -- to receive a fixed
stipend by which he may be compensated for the devotion of his time to
[9] public service to be paid out of the national Treasury.

10. Resold. that the Natl. Executive shall have a right to negative any
Legislative Act, which shall not be afterwards passed unless [10] by two
thirds of each branch of the National Legislature.

11. Resold. that a Natl. Judiciary be established, to consist of one
supreme tribunal, the Judges of which to [11] be appointed by the 2d.
branch of the Natl. Legislature, to hold their offices during good
behaviour, & to receive punctually at stated times a fixed compensation
for their services, in which no increase or diminution shall be made, so
as to affect the persons actually in office at the time of such increase
or diminution.

12. Resold. that the Natl. Legislature be empowered to appoint inferior
Tribunals.

13. Resd. that the jurisdiction of the Natl. Judiciary shall extend to
all cases which respect the collection of the Natl. revenue,
impeachments of any Natl. Officers, and questions which involve the
national peace & harmony.

14. Resd. that provision ought to be made for the admission of States
lawfully arising within the limits of the U. States, whether from a
voluntary junction of Government & territory or otherwise, with the
consent of a number of voices in the Natl. Legislature less than the
whole.

15. Resd. that provision ought to be made for the continuance of
Congress and their authorities and privileges untill a given day after
the reform of the articles of Union shall be adopted and for the
completion of all their engagements. 

16. Resd. that a Republican Constitution & its existing laws ought to be
guaranteed to each State by the U. States.

17. Resd. that provision ought to be made for the amendment of the
Articles of Union whensoever it shall seem necessary.

18. Resd. that the Legislative, Executive & Judiciary powers within the
several States ought to be bound by oath to support the articles of
Union.

19. Resd. that the amendments which shall be offered to the
confederation by the Convention ought at a proper time or times after
the approbation of Congs. to be submitted to an Assembly or Assemblies
recommended by the several Legislatures to be expressly chosen by the
people to consider and decide thereon.

___________

1. The words "the ninth Resolution" are substituted in the transcript
for "Resol: 9."

2. The word "are" is substituted in the transcript for "were."

3. The word "may" is here inserted in the transcript.

4. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

5. In the transcript the vote reads: "New York, Delaware, Virginia, aye
-- 3; Massachusetts, Connecticut. New Jersey, Maryland, North Carolina,
South Carolina, Georgia no -- 7."

6. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

7. This heading is omitted in the transcript.

8. The word "independency" is changed to "independence" in the
transcript.

9. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

10. The word "unless" is omitted in the transcript.

11. The word "shall" is substituted in the transcript for "to."


