SATURDAY  JUNE 16th.  IN COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE ON [1] RESOLUTIONS
PROPOSD. BY MR. P. & MR. R

Mr. LANSING called for the reading of the 1st. resolution of each plan,
which he considered as involving principles directly in contrast; that
of Mr. Patterson says he sustains the sovereignty of the respective
States, that of Mr. Randolph distroys it: the latter requires a negative
on all the laws of the particular States; the former, only certain
general powers for the general good. The plan of Mr. R. in short absorbs
all power except what may be exercised in the little local matters of
the States which are not objects worthy of the supreme cognizance. He
grounded his preference of Mr. P.'s plan, chiefly on two objections
agst. [2] that of Mr. R. 1. [3] want of power in the Convention to
discuss & propose it. 2 [3] the improbability of its being adopted.

1. He was decidedly of opinion that the power of the Convention was
restrained to amendments of a federal nature, and having for their basis
the Confederacy in being. The Act of Congress The tenor of the Acts of
the States, the Commissions produced by the several deputations all
proved this. And this limitation of the power to an amendment of the
Confederacy, marked the opinion of the States, that it was unnecessary &
improper to go farther. He was sure that this was the case with his
State. N. York would never have concurred in sending deputies to the
convention, if she had supposed the deliberations were to turn on a
consolidation of the States, and a National Government.

2. was it probable that the States would adopt & ratify a scheme, which
they had never authorized us to propose? and which so far exceeded what
they regarded as sufficient? We see by their several Acts particularly
in relation to the plan of revenue proposed by Cong. in 1783, not
authorized by the Articles of Confederation, what were the ideas they
then entertained. Can so great a change be supposed to have already
taken place. To rely on any change which is hereafter to take place in
the sentiments of the people would be trusting to too great an
uncertainty. We know only what their present sentiments are. And it is
in vain to propose what will not accord with these. The States will
never feel a sufficient confidence in a general Government to give it a
negative on their laws. The Scheme is itself totally novel. There is no
parallel to it to be found. The authority of Congress is familiar to the
people, and an augmentation of the powers of Congress will be readily
approved by them.

Mr. PATTERSON, said as he had on a former occasion given his sentiments
on the plan proposed by Mr. R. he would now avoiding repetition as much
as possible give his reasons in favor of that proposed by himself. He
preferred it because it accorded 1. [4] with the powers of the
Convention, 2 [4] with the sentiments of the people. If the confederacy
was radically wrong, let us return to our States, and obtain larger
powers, not assume them of ourselves. I came here not to speak my own
sentiments, but the sentiments of those who sent me. Our object is not
such a Governmt. as may be best in itself, but such a one as our
Constituents have authorized us to prepare, and as they will approve. If
we argue the matter on the supposition that no Confederacy at present
exists, it can not be denied that all the States stand on the footing of
equal sovereignty. All therefore must concur before any can be bound. If
a proportional representation be right, why do we not vote so here? If
we argue on the fact that a federal compact actually exists, and consult
the articles of it we still find an equal Sovereignty to be the basis of
it. He reads the 5th. art: of [5] Confederation giving each State a vote
-- & the 13th. declaring that no alteration shall be made without
unanimous consent. This is the nature of all treaties. What is
unanimously done, must be unanimously undone. It was observed [by Mr.
Wilson] that the larger States gave up the point, not because it was
right, but because the circumstances of the moment urged the concession.
Be it so. Are they for that reason at liberty to take it back. Can the
donor resume his gift without the consent of the donee. This doctrine
may be convenient, but it is a doctrine that will sacrifice the lesser
States. The large States acceded readily to the confederacy. It was the
small ones that came in reluctantly and slowly. N. Jersey & Maryland
were the two last, the former objecting to the want of power in Congress
over trade: both of them to the want of power to appropriate the vacant
territory to the benefit of the whole. -- If the sovereignty of the
States is to be maintained, the Representatives must be drawn
immediately from the States, not from the people: and we have no power
to vary the idea of equal sovereignty. The only expedient that will cure
the difficulty, is that of throwing the States into Hotchpot. To say
that this is impracticable, will not make it so. Let it be tried, and we
shall see whether the Citizens of Massts. Pena. & Va. accede to it. It
will be objected that Coercion will be impracticable. But will it be
more so in one plan than the other? Its efficacy will depend on the
quantum of power collected, not on its being drawn from the States, or
from the individuals; and according to his plan it may be exerted on
individuals as well as according [6] that of Mr. R. A distinct executive
& Judiciary also were equally provided by his plan. It is urged that two
branches in the Legislature are necessary. Why? for the purpose of a
check. But the reason of [7] the precaution is not applicable to this
case. Within a particular State, where party heats prevail, such a check
may be necessary. In such a body as Congress it is less necessary, and
besides, the delegations of the different States are checks on each
other. Do the people at large complain of Congs.? No, what they wish is
that Congs. may have more power. If the power now proposed be not eno',
the people hereafter will make additions to it. With proper powers
Congs. will act with more energy & wisdom than the proposed Natl.
Legislature; being fewer in number, and more secreted & refined by the
mode of election. The plan of Mr. R. will also be enormously expensive.
Allowing Georgia & Del. two representatives each in the popular branch
the aggregate number of that branch will be 180. Add to it half as many
for the other branch and you have 270. members coming once at least a
year from the most distant as well as the most central parts of the
republic. In the present deranged state of our finances can so expensive
a system be seriously though of? By enlarging the powers of Congs. the
greatest part of this expence will be saved, and all purposes will be
answered. At least a trial ought to be made.

Mr. WILSON entered into a contrast of the principal points of the two
plans so far he said as there had been time to examine the one last
proposed. These points were 1. in the Virga. plan there are 2 & in some
degree 3 branches in the Legislature: in the plan from N. J. there is to
be a single legislature only -- 2. Representation of the people at large
is the basis of the [8] one: -- the State Legislatures, the pillars of
the other -- 3. proportional representation prevails in one: -- equality
of suffrage in the other -- 4. A single Executive Magistrate is at the
head of the one: -- a plurality is held out in the other. -- 5. in the
one the [9] majority of the people of the U. S. must prevail: -- in the
other a minority may prevail. 6. the Natl. Legislature is to make laws
in all cases to which the separate States are incompetent & -- : -- in
place of this Congs. are to have additional power in a few cases only --
7. A negative on the laws of the States: -- in place of this coertion to
be substituted -- 8. The Executive to be removeable on impeachment &
conviction; -- in one plan: in the other to be removeable at the
instance of [10] majority of the Executives of the States -- 9. Revision
of the laws provided for in one: -- no such check in the other -- 10.
inferior national tribunals in one: -- none such in the other. 11. In
ye. one jurisdiction of Natl. tribunals to extend &c -- ; an appellate
jurisdiction only allowed in the other. 12. Here the jurisdiction is to
extend to all cases affecting the Nationl. peace & harmony: there, a few
cases only are marked out. 13. finally ye. ratification is in this to be
by the people themselves: -- in that by the legislative authorities
according to the 13 art: of [11] Confederation.

With regard to the power of the Convention, he conceived himself
authorized to conclude nothing, but to be at liberty to propose any
thing. In this particular he felt himself perfectly indifferent to the
two plans.

With regard to the sentiments of the people, he conceived it difficult
to know precisely what they are. Those of the particular circle in which
one moved, were commonly mistaken for the general voice. He could not
persuade himself that the State Govts. & Sovereignties were so much the
idols of the people, nor a Natl. Govt. so obnoxious to them, as some
supposed. Why sd. a Natl. Govt. be unpopular? Has it less dignity? will
each Citizen enjoy under it less liberty or protection? Will a Citizen
of Delaware be degraded by becoming a Citizen of the United States? [12]
Where do the people look at present for relief from the evils of which
they complain? Is it from an internal reform of their Govts.? no, Sir.
It is from the Natl. Councils that relief is expected. For these reasons
he did not fear, that the people would not follow us into a national
Govt. and it will be a further recommendation of Mr. R.'s plan that it
is to be submitted to them, and not to the Legislatures, for
ratification.

Proceeding now to the 1st point on which he had contrasted the two
plans, he observed that anxious as he was for some augmentation of the
federal powers, it would be with extreme reluctance indeed that he could
ever consent to give powers to Congs. he had two reasons either of wch.
was sufficient. 1. [13] Congs. as a Legislative body does not stand on
the people. 2. [13] it is a single body. 1. He would not repeat the
remarks he had formerly made on the principles of Representation. he
would only say that an inequality in it, has ever been a poison
contaminating every branch of Govt. In G. Britain where this poison has
had a full operation, the security of private rights is owing entirely
to the purity of Her tribunals of Justice, the Judges of which are
neither appointed nor paid, by a venal Parliament. The political liberty
of that Nation, owing to the inequality of representation is at the
mercy of its rulers. He means not to insinuate that there is any
parallel between the situation of that Country & ours at present. But it
is a lesson we ought not to disregard, that the smallest bodies in G. B.
are notoriously the most corrupt. Every other source of influence must
also be stronger in small than [14] large bodies of men. When Lord
Chesterfield had told us that one of the Dutch provinces had been
seduced into the views of France, he need not have added, that it was
not Holland, but one of the smallest of them. There are facts among
ourselves which are known to all. Passing over others, he [15] will only
remark that the Impost, so anxiously wished for by the public was
defeated not by any of the larger States in the Union. 2. Congress is a
single Legislature. Despotism comes on Mankind in different Shapes,
sometimes in an Executive, sometimes in a Military, one. Is there no
danger of a Legislative despotism? Theory & practice both proclaim it.
If the Legislative authority be not restrained, there can be neither
liberty nor stability; and it can only be restrained by dividing it
within itself, into distinct and independent branches. In a single House
there is no check, but the inadequate one, of the virtue & good sense of
those who compose it.

On another great point, the contrast was equally favorable to the plan
reported by the Committee of the whole. It vested the Executive powers
in a single Magistrate. The plan of N. Jersey, vested them in a
plurality. In order to controul the Legislative authority, you must
divide it. In order to controul the Executive you must unite it. One man
will be more responsible than three. Three will contend among themselves
till one becomes the master of his colleagues. In the triumvirates of
Rome first Caesar, then Augustus, are witnesses of this truth. The Kings
of Sparta, & the Consuls of Rome prove also the factious consequences of
dividing the Executive Magistracy. Having already taken up so much time
he wd. not he sd. proceed to any of the other points. Those on which he
had dwelt, are sufficient of themselves: and on a decision of them, the
fate of the others will depend.

Mr. PINKNEY, the whole comes to this, as he conceived. Give N. Jersey an
equal vote, and she will dismiss her scruples, and concur in the Natil.
system. He thought the Convention authorized to go any length in
recommending, which they found necessary to remedy the evils which
produced this Convention.

Mr. ELSEWORTH proposed as a more distinctive form of collecting the mind
of the Committee on the subject, "that the Legislative power of the U.
S. should remain in Congs." This was not seconded though it seemed
better calculated for the purpose than the 1st. proposition of Mr.
Patterson in place of which Mr. E. wished to substitute it.

Mr. RANDOLPH, was not scrupulous on the point of power. When the
salvation of the Republic was at stake, it would be treason to our
trust, not to propose what we found necessary. He painted in strong
colours, the imbecility of the existing Confederacy, & the danger of
delaying a substantial reform. In answer to the objection drawn from the
sense of our Constituents as denoted by their acts relating to the
Convention and the objects of their deliberation, he observed that as
each State acted separately in the case, it would have been indecent for
it to have charged the existing Constitution with all the vices which it
might have perceived in it. The first State that set on foot this
experiment would not have been justified in going so far, ignorant as it
was of the opinion of others, and sensible as it must have been of the
uncertainty of a successful issue to the experiment. There are certainly
seasons [16] of a peculiar nature where the ordinary cautions must be
dispensed with; and this is certainly one of them. He wd. not as far as
depended on him leave any thing that seemed necessary, undone. The
present moment is favorable, and is probably the last that will offer.

The true question is whether we shall adhere to the federal plan, or
introduce the national plan. The insufficiency of the former has been
fully displayed by the trial already made. There are but two modes, by
which the end of a Genl. Govt. can be attained: the 1st. is [17] by
coercion as proposed by Mr. P.s plan 2. [18] by real legislation as
propd. by the other plan. Coercion he pronounced to be impracticable,
expensive, cruel to individuals. It tended also to habituate the
instruments of it to shed the blood & riot in the spoils of their fellow
Citizens, and consequently trained them up for the service of ambition.
We must resort therefor to a National [19] Legislation over individuals,
for which Congs. are unfit. To vest such power in them, would be
blending the Legislative with the Executive, contrary to the recd. maxim
on this subject: If the Union of these powers heretofore in Congs. has
been safe, it has been owing to the general impotency of that body.
Congs. are moreover not elected by the people, but by the Legislatures
who retain even a power of recall. They have therefore no will of their
own, they are a mere diplomatic body, and are always obsequious to the
views of the States, who are always encroaching on the authority of the
U. States. A provision for harmony among the States, as in trade,
naturalization &c. -- for crushing rebellion.

Whenever it may rear its crest -- and for certain other general
benefits, must be made. The powers for these purposes, can never be
given to a body, inadequate as Congress are in point of representation,
elected in the mode in which they are, and possessing no more confidence
than they do: for notwithstanding what has been said to the contrary,
his own experience satisfied him that a rooted distrust of Congress
pretty generally prevailed. A Natl. Govt. alone, properly constituted,
will answer the purpose; and he begged it to be considered that the
present is the last moment for establishing one. After this select
experiment, the people will yield to despair.

The Committee rose & the House adjourned.

___________

1. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

2. The word "to" is substituted in the transcript for "agst."

3. The figure "1" are changed to "first" and "secondly" in the
transcript.

4. The figures "1" and "2" are changed to "first" and "secondly" in the
transcript.

5. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

6. The word "to" is here inserted in the transcript.

7. The word "for" is substituted in the transcript for "of."

8. The word "the" is omitted in the transcript.

9. The word "a" is substituted in the transcript for "the."

10. The word "a" is here inserted in the transcript.

11. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

12. The transcript does not italicize the word "States."

13. The figures "1" and "2" are changed to "first" and "secondly" in the
transcript.

14. The word "in" is here inserted in the transcript.

15. The word "we" is substituted in the transcript for "he."

16. The words "certainly seasons" are transposed to read "seasons
certainly" in the transcript; but the word "seasons" was erroneously
printed "reasons," which error has been followed in other editions of
Madison's notes.

17. The word "is" is omitted in the transcript.

18. The figure "2" is changed to "the second" in the transcript.

19. The transcript italicizes the word "National."


