IN CONVENTION   THURSDAY  AUG: 23, 1787 [1]

The Report of the Committee of Eleven made Aug: 21. [2] being taken up,
and the following clause being under consideration to wit "To make laws
for organizing, arming & disciplining the Militia, and for governing
such part [3] of them as may be employed in the service of the U. S.
reserving to the States respectively, the appointment of the officers,
and authority of training the militia according to the discipline
prescribed -- "

Mr. SHERMAN moved to strike out the last member -- "and authority of
training &c. He thought it unnecessary. The States will have this
authority of course if not given up.

Mr. ELSWORTH doubted the propriety of striking out the sentence. The
reason assigned applies as well to the other reservation of the
appointment to offices. He remarked at the same time that the term
discipline was of vast extent and might be so expounded as to include
all power on the subject.

Mr. KING, by way of explanation, said that by organizing, the Committee
meant, proportioning the officers & men -- by arming, specifying the
kind size & caliber of arms -- & by disciplining prescribing the manual
exercise evolutions &c.

Mr. SHERMAN withdrew his motion

Mr. GERRY. This power in the U. S. as explained is making the States
drill-sergeants. He had as lief let the Citizens of Massachussets be
disarmed, as to take the command from the States, and subject them to
the Genl. Legislature. It would be regarded as a system of Despotism.

Mr. MADISON observed that "arming" as explained did not did not extend
to furnishing arms; nor the term "disciplining" to penalties & Courts
Martial for enforcing them.

Mr. KING added, to his former explanation that arming meant not only to
provide for uniformity of arms, but included [4] authority to regulate
the modes of furnishing, either by the Militia themselves, the State
Governments, or the National Treasury: that laws for disciplining, must
involve penalties and every thing necessary for enforcing penalties.

Mr. DAYTON moved to postpone the paragraph, in order to take up the
following proposition

"To establish an uniform & general system of discipline for the Militia
of these States, and to make laws for organizing, arming, disciplining &
governing such part of them as may be employed in the service of the U.
S., reserving to the States respectively the appointment of the
officers, and all authority over the Militia not herein given to the
General Government"

On the question to postpone in favor of this proposition: it passed in
the Negative

N. H. no. Mas no. Ct. no. N. J. ay. P. no. Del. no. Maryd. ay. Va. no.
N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. ay. [5]

Mr. ELSWORTH & Mr. SHERMAN moved to postpone the 2d. clause in favor of
the following "To establish an uniformity of arms, exercise &
organization for the Militia, and to provide for the Government of them
when called into the service of the U. States" The object of this
proposition was to refer the plan for the Militia to the General Govt.
but [6] leave the execution of it to the State Govts.

Mr. LANGDON said He could not understand the jealousy expressed by some
Gentleman. [7] The General & State Govts. were not enemies to each
other, but different institutions for the good of the people of America.
As one of the people he could say, the National Govt. is mine, the State
Govt. is mine. In transferring power from one to the other, I only take
out of my left hand what it can not so well use, and put it into my
right hand where it can be better used.

Mr. GERRY thought it was rather taking out of the right hand & putting
it into the left. Will any man say that liberty will be as safe in the
hands of eighty or a hundred men taken from the whole continent, as in
the hands of two or three hundred taken from a single State.

Mr. DAYTON was against so absolute a uniformity. In some States there
ought to be a greater proportion of cavalry than in others. In some
places rifles would be most proper, in others muskets &c.

Genl. PINKNEY preferred the clause reported by the Committee, extending
the meaning of it to the case of fines &c.

Mr. MADISON. The primary object is to secure an effectual discipline of
the Militia. This will no more be done if left to the States separately
than the requisitions have been hitherto paid by them. The States
neglect their Militia now, and the more they are consolidated into one
nation, the less each will rely on its own interior provisions for its
safety & the less prepare its Militia for that purpose; in like manner
as the militia of a State would have been still more neglected than it
has been if each County had been independently charged with the care of
its Militia. The Discipline of the Militia is evidently a National
concern, and ought to be provided for in the National Constitution.

Mr. L. MARTIN was confident that the States would never give up the
power over the Militia; and that, if they were to do so the militia
would be less attended to by the Genl. than by the State Governments.

Mr. RANDOLPH asked what danger there could be that the Militia could be
brought into the field and made to commit suicide on themselves. This is
a power that can not from its nature be abused, unless indeed the whole
mass should be corrupted. He was for trammelling the Genl. Govt.
wherever there was danger, but here there could be none. He urged this
as an essential point; observing that the Militia were every where
neglected by the State Legislatures, the members of which courted
popularity too much to enforce a proper discipline. Leaving the
appointment of officers to the States protects the people agst. every
apprehension that could produce murmur.

On [8] Question on Mr. Elsworth's Motion

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [9]

A motion was then made to recommit the 2d. clause which was negatived.

On the question to agree to the 1st. part of the clause, namely

"To make laws for organizing arming & disciplining the Militia, and for
governing such part of them as may be employed in the service of the U.
S."

N. H ay. Mas. ay. Ct. no. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. no. Va. ay. N.
C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [10]

Mr. MADISON moved to amend the next part of the clause so as to read
"reserving to the States respectively, the appointment of the officers,
under the rank of General officers"

Mr. SHERMAN considered this as absolutely inadmissible. He said that if
the people should be so far asleep as to allow the most influential
officers of the militia to be appointed by the Genl. Government, every
man of discernment would rouse them by sounding the alarm to them.

Mr. GERRY. Let us at once destroy the State Govts. have an Executive for
life or hereditary, and a proper Senate, and then there would be some
consistency in giving full powers to the Genl. Govt. but as the States
are not to be abolished, he wondered at the attempts that were made to
give powers inconsistent with their existence. He warned the Convention
agst. pushing the experiment too far. Some people will support a plan of
vigorous Government at every risk. Others of a more democratic cast will
oppose it with equal determination, and a Civil war may be produced by
the conflict.

Mr. MADISON. As the greatest danger is that of disunion of the States,
it is necessary to guard agat. it by sufficient powers to the Common
Govt. and as the greatest danger to liberty is from large standing
armies, it is best to prevent them, by an effectual provision for a good
Militia.

On the Question to agree to Mr. Madison's motion

N. H. ay. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no. N.
C. no. S. C. ay. Geo. [11] ay. [12]

On the question to agree to the "reserving to the States the appointment
of the officers." It was agreed to nem: contrad: On the question on the
clause "and the authority of training the Militia according to the
discipline prescribed by the U. S. -- "

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. no. N.
C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. no. [13]

On the question to agree to Art. VII. Sect. 7. [14] as reported It
passed nem. contrad:

Mr. PINKNEY urged the necessity of preserving foreign Ministers & other
officers of the U. S. independent of external influence and moved to
insert, after Art VII Sect 7. the clause following -- "No person holding
any office of profit or trust [15] under the U. S. shall without the
consent of the Legislature, accept of any present, emolument, office or
title of any kind whatever, from any King, Prince or foreign State which
passed nem: contrad.

Mr. RUTLIDGE moved to amend Art: VIII [14] to read as follows,

"This Constitution & the laws of the U. S. made in pursuance thereof,
and all Treaties made under the authority of the U. S. shall be the
supreme law of the several States and of their citizens and inhabitants;
and the Judges in the several States shall be bound thereby in their
decisions, any thing in the Constitutions or laws of the several States,
to the contrary notwithstanding." which was agreed to nem: contrad: 

Art: IX [14] being next for consideration,

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS argued agst. the appointment of officers by the Senate.
He considered the body as too numerous for the [16] purpose; as subject
to cabal; and as devoid of responsibility. If Judges were to be tried by
the Senate according to a late report of a Committee it was particularly
wrong to let the Senate have the filling of vacancies which its own
decrees were to create.

Mr. WILSON was of the same opinion & for like reasons.

The [17] art IX being waived and art VII. sect 1. [18] resumed,

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved to strike the following words out of the 18
clause "enforce treaties" as being superfluous, since treaties were to
be "laws" -- which was agreed to nem: contrad:

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved to alter [19] 1st. part. of [19] 18. clause sect.
1. to execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections and repel
invasions."

art. VII [20] so as to read "to provide for calling forth the Militia

which was agreed to nem: contrad

On the question then to agree to the 18 clause of Sect. 1. art: 7. as
amended it passed in the affirmative nem: contradicente.

Mr. C- PINKNEY moved to add as an additional power to be vested in the
Legislature of the U. S. "To negative all laws passed by the several
States interfering in the opinion of the Legislature with the general
interests and harmony of the Union; provided that two thirds of the
members of each House assent to the same"

This principle he observed had formerly been agreed to. He considered
the precaution as essentially necessary: The objection drawn from the
predominance of the large States had been removed by the equality
established in the Senate.

Mr. BROOME 2ded. the proposition.

Mr. SHERMAN thought it unnecessary; the laws of the General Government
being Supreme & paramount to the State laws according to the plan, as it
now stands.

Mr. MADISON proposed that it should be committed. He had been from the
beginning a friend to the principle; but thought the modification might
be made better.

Mr. MASON wished to know how the power was to be exercised. Are all laws
whatever to be brought up? Is no road nor bridge to be established
without the Sanction of the General Legislature? Is this to sit
constantly in order to receive & revise the State Laws? He did not mean
by these remarks to condemn the expedient, but he was apprehensive that
great objections would lie agst. it.

Mr. WILLIAMSON thought it unnecessary, & having been already decided, a
revival of the question was a waste of time.

Mr. WILSON considered this as the key-stone wanted to compleat the wide
arch of Government, we are raising. The power of self-defence had been
urged as necessary for the State Governments. It was equally necessary
for the General Government. The firmness of Judges is not of itself
sufficient. Something further is requisite. It will be better to prevent
the passage of an improper law, than to declare it void when passed.

Mr. RUTLIDGE. If nothing else, this alone would damn and ought to damn
the Constitution. Will any State ever agree to be bound hand & foot in
this manner. It is worse than making mere corporations of them whose bye
laws would not be subject to this shackle.

Mr. ELSEWORTH observed that the power contended for wd. require either
that all laws of the State Legislatures should previously to their
taking effect be transmitted to the Genl. Legislature, or be repealable
by the Latter; or that the State Executives should be appointed by the
Genl. Government, and have a controul over the State laws. If the last
was medit. ated let it be declared.

Mr. PINKNEY declared that he thought the State Executives ought to be so
appointed with such a controul, & that it would be so provided if
another Convention should take place.

Mr. GOVERNr. MORRIS did not see the utility or practicability of the
proposition of Mr. Pinkney, but wished it to be referred to the
consideration of a Committee.

Mr. LANGDON was in favor of the proposition. He considered it as
resolvable into the question whether the extent of the National
Constitution was to be judged of by the Genl. or the State Governments.

On the question for commitment, it passed in the negative.

N. H. ay. Masts. no. Cont. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del: ay. Md. ay. Va.
ay. N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [21]

Mr. PINKNEY then withdrew his proposition.

The 1st. sect. of art: VII [22] being so amended as to read "The
Legislature shall fulfil the engagements and discharge the debts of the
U. S. & shall have the power to lay & collect taxes duties imposts &
excises," was agreed to.

Mr. BUTLER expressed his dissatisfaction lest it should compel payment
as well to the Blood-suckers who had speculated on the distresses of
others, as to those who had fought & bled for their country. He would be
ready he said tomorrow to vote for a discrimination between those
classes of people, and gave notice that he should [23] move for a
reconsideration.

Art IX. sect. 1. [24] being resumed, to wit "The Senate of the U. S.
shall have power to make treaties, and to appoint Ambassadors, and
Judges of the Supreme Court."

Mr. MADISON observed that the Senate represented the States alone, and
that for this as well as other obvious reasons it was proper that the
President should be an agent in Treaties.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS did not know that he should agree to refer the making
of Treaties to the Senate at all, but for the present wd. move to add,
as an amendment to the section after "Treaties" -- [25] "but no Treaty
shall be binding on the U. S. which is not ratified by a law." 

Mr. MADISON suggested the inconvenience of requiring a legal
ratification of treaties of alliance for the purposes of war &c &c

Mr. GHORUM. Many other disadvantages must be experienced if treaties of
peace & all negociations are to be previously ratified -- and if not
previously, the Ministers would be at a loss how to proceed. What would
be the case in G. Britain if the King were to proceed in this manner.
American Ministers must go abroad not instructed by the same Authority
(as will be the case with other Ministers) which is to ratify their
proceedings.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. As to treaties of alliance, they will oblige foreign
powers to send their Ministers here, the very thing we should wish for.
Such treaties could not be otherwise made, if his amendment shd.
succeed. In general he was not solicitous to multiply & facilitate
Treaties. He wished none to be made with G. Britain, till she should be
at war. Then a good bargain might be made with her. So with other
foreign powers. The more difficulty in making treaties, the more value
will be set on them.

Mr. WILSON. In the most important Treaties, the King of G.

Britain being obliged to resort to Parliament for the execution of them,
is under the same fetters as the amendment of Mr. Morris will impose on
the Senate. It was refused yesterday to permit even the Legislature to
lay duties on exports. Under the clause, without the amendment, the
Senate alone can make a Treaty, requiring all the Rice of S. Carolina to
be sent to some one particular port.

Mr. DICKINSON concurred in the amendment, as most safe and proper, tho'
he was sensible it was unfavorable to the little States; wch. would
otherwise have an equal share in making Treaties.

DOCr. JOHNSON thought there was something of solecism in saying that the
acts of a Minister with plenipotentiary powers from one Body, should
depend for ratification on another Body. The Example of the King of G.
B. was not parallel. Full & compleat power was vested in him. If the
Parliament should fail to provide the necessary means of execution, the
Treaty would be violated.

Mr. GHORUM in answer to Mr. GOVr. MORRIS, said that negociations on the
spot were not to be desired by us, especially if the whole Legislature
is to have any thing to do with Treaties. It will be generally
influenced by two or three men, who will be corrupted by the Ambassadors
here. In such a Government as ours, it is necessary to guard against the
Government itself being seduced.

Mr. RANDOLPH observing that almost every Speaker had made objections to
the clause as it stood, moved in order to a further consideration of the
subject, that the Motion of Mr. Govr. Morris should be postponed, and on
this question It was lost the States being equally divided.

Massts. no. Cont. no. N. J. ay. Pena. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay. N. C.
no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [26]

On Mr. Govr. Morris Motion

Masts. no. Cont. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no. N. C.
divd. S. C. no. Geo. no. [27]

The several clauses of Sect: 1. Art IX, were then separately postponed
after inserting "and other public Ministers" next after "Ambassadors."

Mr. MADISON hinted for consideration, whether a distinction might not be
made between different sorts of Treaties -- Allowing the President &
Senate to make Treaties eventual and of Alliance for limited terms --
and requiring the concurrence of the whole Legislature in other
Treaties.

The 1st. Sect art IX. was finally referred nem: con: to the committee of
Five, and the House then

Adjourned

___________

1. The year "1787" is omitted in the transcript.

2. The words "the twenty-first of August" are substituted in the
transcript for "Aug: 21."

3. The transcript uses the word "part" in the plural.

4. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

5. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Jersey, Maryland, Georgia, aye
-- 3; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Delaware,
Virginia, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, no -- 8."

6. The word "to" is here inserted in the transcript.

7. The word "gentleman" is used in the plural in the transcript.

8. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

9. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, aye; the other ten
States, no."

10. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New
Jersey, Pennsyalvania, Delaware, Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 9; Connecticut, Maryland, no -- 2."

11. In the printed Journal, Geo: no.

12. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, South Carolina,
Georgia, [FN*] aye -- 3; Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, no -- 8."

13. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, North Carolina, aye --
7; Delaware, Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 4."

14. See ante.

15. The words "profit or trust" are transposed to read "trust or profit"
in the transcript.

16. The word "that" is substituted in the transcript for "the."

17. The word "the" is crossed out in the transcript.

18. See ante.

19. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

20. The transcript omits "sect. 1. art. VII."

21. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, aye -- 5; Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
Jersey, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 6."

22. The phrase "The first clause of article 7. section 1" is substituted
in the transcript for "The 1st sect of art: VII."

23. The word "would" is substituted in the transcript for "should."

24. See p. -- .

25. The words "the following" are here inserted in the transcript.

26. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, aye -- 5; Massachusetts, Connecticut,
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 5."

27. In the transcript the vote reads: "Pennsylvania, aye -- 1;
Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia,
South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8."


