FRIDAY  JULY 20.   IN CONVENTION

The postponed [1] Ratio of Electors for appointing the Executive; to wit
1 for each State whose inhabitants do not exceed 100,000, [2] &c. being
taken up.

Mr. MADISON observed that this would make in time all or nearly all the
States equal. Since there were few that would not in time contain the
number of inhabitants intitling them to 3 Electors: that this ratio
ought either to be made temporary, or so varied as that it would adjust
itself to the growing population of the States.

Mr. GERRY moved that in the 1st. instance the Electors should be
allotted to the States in the following ratio: to N. H. 1. Mas. 3. R. I.
1. Cont. 2. N. Y. 2. N. J. 2. Pa. 3. Del. 1. Md. 2. Va. 3. N. C. 2. S.
C. 2. Geo. 1.

On the question to postpone in order to take up this motion of Mr.
Gerry. It passed in the affirmative. Mas. ay. Cont. no. N. J. no. Pa.
ay. Del. no. Md. no. Va. ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [3]

Mr. ELSEWORTH moved that 2 Electors be allotted to N. H. Some rule ought
to be pursued; and N. H. has more than 100,000 inhabitants. He thought
it would be proper also to allot 2. to Georgia

Mr. BROOM & Mr. MARTIN moved to postpone Mr. Gerry's allotment of
Electors, leaving a fit ratio to be reported by the Committee to be
appointed for detailing the Resolutions.

On this motion. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va.
no. N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [4]

Mr. HOUSTON 2ded. the motion of Mr. Elseworth to add another Elector to
N. H. & Georgia. On the Question: Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. no. Pa. no.
Del. no. Md. no. Va. no. N. C. no. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [5]

Mr. WILLIAMSON moved as an amendment to Mr. Gerry's allotment of
Electors in the 1st. instance that in future elections of the Natl.
Executive, the number of Electors to be appointed by the several States
shall be regulated by their respective numbers of Representatives in the
1st. branch pursuing as nearly as may be the present proportions.

On question on Mr. Gerry's ratio of Electors Mas. ay. Ct. ay. N. J. no.
Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. no. Va. ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. no. [6, 7] "to
be removeable on impeachment and conviction for mal practice or neglect
of duty." see Resol: 9. [8]

Mr. PINKNEY & Mr. Govr. MORRIS moved to strike out this part of the
Resolution. Mr. P. observd. he ought not to be impeachable whilst in
office

Mr. DAVIE. If he be not impeachable whilst in office, he will spare no
efforts or means whatever to get himself re-elected. He considered this
as an essential security for the good behaviour of the Executive.

Mr. WILSON concurred in the necessity of making the Executive
impeachable whilst in office.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. He can do no criminal act without Coadjutors who may
be punished. In case he should be re-elected, that will be [9]
sufficient proof of his innocence. Besides who is to impeach? Is the
impeachment to suspend his functions. If it is not the mischief will go
on. If it is the impeachment will be nearly equivalent to a
displacement, and will render the Executive dependent on those who are
to impeach

Col. MASON. No point is of more importance than that the right of
impeachment should be continued. Shall any man be above Justice? Above
all shall that man be above it, who can commit the most extensive
injustice? When great crimes were committed he was for punishing the
principal as well as the Coadjutors. There had been much debate &
difficulty as to the mode of chusing the Executive. He approved of that
which had been adopted at first, namely of referring the appointment to
the Natl. Legislature. One objection agst. Electors was the danger of
their being corrupted by the Candidates; & this furnished a peculiar
reason in favor of impeachments whilst in office. Shall the man who has
practised corruption & by that means procured his appointment in the
first instance, be suffered to escape punishment, by repeating his
guilt?

DOCr. FRANKLIN was for retaining the clause as favorable to the
Executive. History furnishes one example only of a first Magistrate
being formally brought to public Justice. Every body cried out agst.
this as unconstitutional. What was the practice before this in cases
where the chief Magistrate rendered himself obnoxious? Why recourse was
had to assassination in wch. he was not only deprived of his life but of
the opportunity of vindicating his character. It wd.. be the best way
therefore to provide in the Constitution for the regular punishment of
the Executive where his misconduct should deserve it, and for his
honorable acquittal when [10] he should be unjustly accused.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS admits corruption & some few other offences to be such
as ought to be impeachable; but thought the cases ought to be enumerated
& defined:

Mr. MADISON thought it indispensable that some provision should be made
for defending the Community agst. the incapacity, negligence or perfidy
of the chief Magistrate. The limitation of the period of his service,
was not a sufficient security. He might lose his capacity after his
appointment. He might pervert his administration into a scheme of
peculation or oppression. He might betray his trust to foreign powers.
The case of the Executive Magistracy was very distinguishable, from that
of the Legislature or of any other public body, holding offices of
limited duration. It could not be presumed that all or even a majority
of the members of an Assembly would either lose their capacity for
discharging, or be bribed to betray, their trust. Besides the restraints
of their personal integrity & honor, the difficulty of acting in concert
for purposes of corruption was a security to the public. And if one or a
few members only should be seduced, the soundness of the remaining
members, would maintain the integrity and fidelity of the body. In the
case of the Executive Magistracy which was to be administered by a
single man, loss of capacity or corruption was more within the compass
of probable events, and either of them might be fatal to the Republic.

Mr. PINKNEY did not see the necessity of impeachments. He was sure they
ought not to issue from the Legislature who would in that case hold them
as a rod over the Executive and by that means effectually destroy his
independence. His revisionary power in particular would be rendered
altogether insignificant.

Mr. GERRY urged the necessity of impeachments. A good magistrate will
not fear them. A bad one ought to be kept in fear of them. He hoped the
maxim would never be adopted here that the chief magistrate could do no
wrong.

Mr. KING expressed his apprehensions that an extreme caution in favor of
liberty might enervate the Government we were forming. He wished the
House to recur to the primitive axiom that the three great departments
of Govts. should be separate & independent: that the Executive &
Judiciary should be so as well as the Legislative: that the Executive
should be so equally with the Judiciary. Would this be the case, if the
Executive should be impeachable? It had been said that the Judiciary
would be impeachable. But it should have been remembered at the same
time that the Judiciary hold their places not for a limited time, but
during good behaviour. It is necessary therefore that a forum should be
established for trying misbehaviour. Was the Executive to hold his place
during good behaviour? The Executive was to hold his place for a limited
term like the members of the Legislature: Like them particularly the
Senate whose members would continue in appointmt the same term of 6
years he would periodically be tried for his behaviour by his electors,
who would continue or discontinue him in trust according to the manner
in which he had discharged it. Like them therefore, he ought to be
subject to no intermediate trial, by impeachment. He ought not to be
impeachable unless he held his office during good behaviour, a tenure
which would be most agreeable to him; provided an independent and
effectual forum could be devised. But under no circumstances ought he to
be impeachable by the Legislature. This would be destructive of his
independence and of the principles of the Constitution. He relied on the
vigor of the Executive as a great security for the public liberties.

Mr. RANDOLPH. The propriety of impeachments was a favorite principle
with him. Guilt wherever found ought to be punished. The Executive will
have great opportunitys of abusing his power; particularly in time of
war when the military force, and in some respects the public money will
be in his hands. Should no regular punishment be provided, it will be
irregularly inflicted by tumults & insurrections. He is aware of the
necessity of proceeding with a cautious hand, and of excluding as much
as possible the influence of the Legislature from the business. He
suggested for consideration an idea which had fallen [from Col Hamilton]
of composing a forum out of the Judges belonging to the States: and even
of requiring some preliminary inquest whether just grounds [11] of
impeachment existed.

DOCtr. FRANKLIN mentioned the case of the Prince of Orange during the
late war. An agreement was made between France & Holland; by which their
two fleets were to unite at a certain time & place. The Dutch fleet did
not appear. Every body began to wonder at it. At length it was suspected
that the Statholder was at the bottom of the matter. This suspicion
prevailed more & more. Yet as he could not be impeached and no regular
examination took place, he remained in his office, and strengthening his
own party, as the party opposed to him became formidable, he gave birth
to the most violent animosities & contentions. Had he been impeachable,
a regular & peaceable enquiry would have taken place and he would if
guilty have been duly punished, if innocent restored to the confidence
of the public.

Mr. KING remarked that the case of the Statholder was not applicable. He
held his place for life, and was not periodically elected. In the former
case impeachments are proper to secure good behaviour. In the latter
they are unnecessary; the periodical responsibility to the electors
being an equivalent security.

Mr. WILSON observed that if the idea were to be pursued, the Senators
who are to hold their places during the same term with the Executive,
ought to be subject to impeachment & removal.

Mr. PINKNEY apprehended that some gentlemen reasoned on a supposition
that the Executive was to have powers which would not be committed to
him: He presumed that his powers would be so circumscribed as to render
impeachments unnecessary.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS's opinion had been changed by the arguments used in the
discussion. He was now sensible of the necessity of impeachments, if the
Executive was to continue for any [12] time in office. Our Executive was
not like a Magistrate having a life interest, much less like one having
an hereditary interest in his office. He may be bribed by a greater
interest to betray his trust; and no one would say that we ought to
expose ourselves to the danger of seeing the first Magistrate in forign
pay, without being able to guard agst. it by displacing him. One would
think the King of England well secured agst. bribery. He has as it were
a fee simple in the whole Kingdom. Yet Charles II was bribed by Louis
XIV. The Executive ought therefore to be impeachable for treachery;
Corrupting his electors, and incapacity were other causes of
impeachment. For the latter he should be punished not as a man, but as
an officer, and punished only by degradation from his office. This
Magistrate is not the King but the prime-Minister. The people are the
King. When we make him amenable to Justice however we should take care
to provide some mode that will not make him dependent on the
Legislature.

It was moved & 2ded. to postpone the question of impeachments which was
negatived. Mas. & S. Carolina only being ay. On ye. Question, Shall the
Executive be removeable on impeachments &c.? Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. ay.
Pa. ay. Del ay. Md. ay. Va. ay. N. C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. ay. [13]

" [14] Executive to receive fixed compensation." Agreed to nem. con. "to
be paid out of the National Treasury" agreed to, N. Jersey only in the
negative.

Mr. GERRY & [15] GOVr. MORRIS moved "that the Electors of the Executive
shall not be members of the Natl. Legislature, nor officers of the U.
States, nor shall the Electors themselves be eligible to the supreme
magistracy." Agreed to nem. con.

DOCr. Mc.CLURG asked whether it would not be necessary, before a
Committee for detailing the Constitution should be appointed, to
determine on the means by which the Executive is to carry the laws into
effect, and to resist combinations agst. them. Is he to have a military
force for the purpose, or to have the command of the Militia, the only
existing force that can be applied to that use? As the Resolutions now
stand the Committee will have no determinate directions on this great
point.

Mr. WILSON thought that some additional directions to the Committee wd..
be necessary.

Mr. KING. The Committee are to provide for the end. Their discretionary
power to provide for the means is involved according to an established
axiom.

Adjourned

___________

1. The word "proposed" is substituted in the transcript for "postponed."

2. In the figure "100,000" the "1" is crossed out and a figure "2" is
written above it in the transcript

3. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Pennsylvania,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 6;
Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, no -- 4."

4. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland,
aye -- 3; Massachusetts, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 7."

5. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, South Carolina,
Georgia, aye -- 3; Massachusetts, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware,
Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, no -- 7."

6. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut,
Pennsylvania, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, aye -- 6; New
Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Georgia, no -- 4."

7. The words "On the clause" are here inserted in the transcript.

8. The words "the ninth Resolution" are substituted in the transcript
for "Resol: 9."

9. The word "a" is here inserted in the transcript.

10. The word "where" is substituted in the transcript for "when."

11. The transcript uses the word "grounds" in the singular.

12. The words "length of" are here inserted in the transcript.

13. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, Georgia, aye
-- 8; Massachusetts, South Carolina, No -- 2."

14. The word "The" is here inserted in the transcript.

15. The word "Mr." is here inserted in the transcript.


