MONDAY.  JULY 16.   IN CONVENTION

On the question for agreeing to the whole Report as amended & including
the equality of votes in the 2d. branch. it passed in the Affirmative.

Mas. divided Mr. Gerry, Mr. Strong, ay. Mr. King Mr. Ghorum no. Cont.
ay. N.J. ay. Pena. no. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. no. N.C. ay. Mr. Spaight no.
S.C. no. Geo. no. [1] [Here enter the whole in the words entered in the
Journal July 16] [2]

The whole, thus passed is in the words following viz

"Resolved that in the original formation of the Legislature of the U. S.
the first branch thereof shall consist of sixty five members, of which
number N. Hampshire shall send 3. Massts. 8. Rh. I. 1. Connt. 5. N. Y.
6. N. J. 4. Pena. 8. Del. 1. Maryd. 6. Virga. 10. N. C. 5. S. C. 5. Geo.
3. -- But as the present situation of the States may probably alter in
the number of their inhabitants, the Legislature of the U. S. shall be
authorized from time to time to apportion the number of Reps.; and in
case any of the States shall hereafter be divided, or enlarged by,
addition of territory, or any two or more States united, or any new
States created with [3] the limits of the U. S. the Legislature of the
U. S. shall possess authority to regulate the number of Reps. in any of
the foregoing cases, upon the principle of their number of inhabitants,
according to the provisions hereafter mentioned, namely [4] -- provided
always that representation ought to be proportioned according to direct
taxation; and in order to ascertain the alteration in the direct
taxation, which may be required from time to time by the changes in the
relative circumstances of the States -- 

Resolved, that a Census be taken within six years from the 1st. meeting
of the Legislature of the U. S. and once within the term of every 10
years afterwards of all the inhabitants of the U. S. in the manner and
according to the ratio recommended by Congress in their Resolution of
April 18. [5] 1783, and that the Legislature of the U. S. shall
proportion the direct taxation accordingly -- 

"Resolved, that all bills for raising or appropriating money, and for
fixing the salaries of officers of the Govt. of the U. S. shall
originate in the first branch of the Legislature of the U. S. and shall
not be altered or amended in the 2d. branch: and that no money shall be
drawn from the public Treasury, but in pursuance of appropriations to be
originated in the 1st. branch.

"Resolvd. that in the 2d. branch of the Legislature of the U. S. each
State shall have an equal vote."

The 6th. Resol: in the Report from the Come. of the whole House, which
had been postponed in order to consider the 7 & 8th. Resolns.: was now
resumed. see the Resoln.

The 1st. member [6] "That the Natl. Legislature ought to possess the
Legislative Rights vested in Congs. by the Confederation." was agreed to
nem. Con.

The next, [7] "And moreover to legislate in all cases to which the
separate States are incompetent; or in which the harmony of the U. S.
may be interrupted by the exercise of individual legislation," being
read for a question

Mr. BUTLER calls for some explanation of the extent of this power:
particularly of the word incompetent. The vagueness of the terms
rendered it impossible for any precise judgment to be formed.

Mr. GHORUM. The vagueness of the terms constitutes the propriety of
them. We are now establishing general principles, to be extended
hereafter into details which will be precise & explicit.

Mr. RUTLIDGE, urged the objection started by Mr. Butler and moved that
the clause should be committed to the end that a specification of the
powers comprised in the general terms, might be reported.

On the question for a [8] commitment, the States [9] were equally
divided.

Mas. no. Cont. ay. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay. N.C. no.
S. C. ay. Geo. ay: [10] So it was lost.

Mr. RANDOLPH. The vote of this morning [involving an equality of
suffrage in 2d. branch] had embarrassed the business extremely. All the
powers given in the Report from the Come. of the whole, were founded on
the supposition that a Proportional representation was to prevail in
both branches of the Legislature. When he came here this morning his
purpose was to have offered some propositions that might if possible
have united a great majority of votes, and particularly might provide
agst. the danger suspected on the part of the smaller States, by
enumerating the cases in which it might lie, and allowing an equality of
votes in such cases. [*11] But finding from the preceding vote that they
persist in demanding an equal vote in all cases, that they have
succeeded in obtaining it, and that N. York if present would probably be
on the same side, he could not but think we were unprepared to discuss
this subject further. It will probably be in vain to come to any final
decision with a bare majority on either side. For these reasons he
wished the Convention might [14] adjourn, that the large States might
consider the steps proper to be taken in the present solemn crisis of
the business, and that the small States might also deliberate on the
means of conciliation.

Mr. PATTERSON, thought with Mr. R. that it was high time for the
Convention to adjourn that the rule of secrecy ought to be rescinded,
and that our Constituents should be consulted. No conciliation could be
admissible on the part of the smaller States on any other ground than
that of an equality of votes in the 2d. branch. If Mr. Randolph would
reduce to form his motion for an adjournment sine die, he would second
it with all his heart.

Genl. PINKNEY wished to know of Mr. R. whether he meant an adjournment
sine die, or only an adjournment for the day. If the former was meant,
it differed much from his idea. He could not think of going to S.
Carolina and returning again to this place. Besides it was chimerical to
suppose that the States if consulted would ever accord separately, and
beforehand.

Mr. RANDOLPH, had never entertained an idea of an adjournment sine die;
& was sorry that his meaning had been so readily & strangely
misinterpreted. He had in view merely an adjournment till tomorrow, in
order that some conciliatory experiment might if possible be devised,
and that in case the smaller States should continue to hold back, the
larger might then take such measures, he would not say what, as might be
necessary.

Mr. PATTERSON seconded the adjournment till tomorrow, as an opportunity
seemed to be wished by the larger States to deliberate further on
conciliatory expedients. On the question for adjourning till tomorrow,
the States were equally divided.

Mas. no. Cont. no. N.J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay. N.C. ay.
S.C. no. Geo. no. [15] So it was lost.

Mr. BROOME thought it his duty to declare his opinion agst. an
adjournment sine die, as had been urged by Mr. Patterson. Such a measure
he thought would be fatal. Something must be done by the Convention,
tho' it should be by a bare majority.

Mr. GERRY observed that Masts. was opposed to an adjournment, because
they saw no new ground of compromise. But as it seemed to be the opinion
of so many States that a trial shd -- be made, the State would now
concur in the adjournmt.

Mr. RUTLIDGE could see no need of an adjournt. because he could see no
chance of a compromise. The little States were fixt. They had repeatedly
& solemnly declared themselves to be so. All that the large States then
had to do, was to decide whether they would yield or not. For his part
he conceived that altho' we could not do what we thought best, in
itself, we ought to do something. Had we not better keep the Govt. up a
little longer, hoping that another Convention will supply our omissions,
than abandon every thing to hazard. Our Constituents will be very little
satisfied with us if we take the latter course.

Mr. RANDOLPH & Mr. KING renewed the motion to adjourn till tomorrow.

On the question. Mas. ay. Cont. no. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. ay.
Va. ay. N.C. ay. S.C. ay. Geo. divd. [16]

Adjourned

On the morning following before the hour of the convention a number of
the members from the larger States by common agreement met for the
purpose of consulting on the proper steps to be taken in consequence of
the vote in favor of an equal Representation in the 2d. branch, and the
apparent inflexibility of the smaller States on that point. Several
members from the latter States also attended. The time was wasted in
vague conversation on the subject, without any specific proposition or
agreement. It appeared indeed that the opinions of the members who
disliked the equality of votes differed so [17] much as to the
importance of that point, and as to the policy of risking a failure of
any general act of the Convention, by inflexibly opposing it. Several of
them supposing that no good Governnt. could or would be built on that
foundation, and that as a division of the Convention into two opinions
was unavoidable; it would be better that the side comprising the
principal States, and a majority of the people of America, should
propose a scheme of Govt. to the States, than that a scheme should be
proposed on the other side, would have concurred in a firm opposition to
the smaller States, and in a separate recommendation, if eventually
necessary. Others seemed inclined to yield to the smaller States, and to
concur in such an act however imperfect & exceptionable, as might be
agreed on by the Convention as a body, tho' decided by a bare majority
of States and by a minority of the people of the U. States. It is
probable that the result of this consultation satisfied the smaller
States that they had nothing to apprehend from a union of the larger, in
any plan whatever agst. the equality of votes in the 2d. branch.

___________

1. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware,
Maryland, North Carolina [Mr. Spaight, no], aye -- 5; Pennsylvania,
Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 4; Massachusetts, divided, [Mr.
Gerry, Mr. Strong, aye; Mr. King, Mr. Gorham, no.]"

2. Madison's direction is omitted in the transcript.

3. The word "within" is substituted in the transcript for the word
"with."

4. The word "namely" is omitted in the transcript.

5. The date "April 18" is changed to "the eighteenth of April" in the
transcript.

6.. The words "The 1st. member" are omitted in the transcript.

7 The words "The next" are omitted in the transcript.

8. The word "a" is omitted in the transcript.

9. The word "votes" is substituted in the transcript for "States."

10. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, Maryland, Virginia,
South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 5; Massachusetts, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, North Carolina, no -- 5."

*11 See the paper in [12] appendix communicated by Mr. R. to J.M. July
10. [13]

12. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

13. The transcript here inserts "No. -- "

14. The word "to" is substituted in the transcript for "might."

15. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina aye -- 5; Massachusetts, Connecticut,
Delaware, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 5."

16. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, aye --
7; Connecticut, Delaware, no -- 2; Georgia, divided."

17. The word "so" is omitted in the transcript.


