TUESDAY  JULY 24.    IN CONVENTION

The appointment of the Executive by Electors [1] reconsidered.

Mr. HOUSTON moved that he be appointed by the "Natl. Legislature,"
instead of "Electors appointed by the State Legislatures" according to
the last decision of the mode. He dwelt chiefly on the improbability,
that capable men would undertake the service of Electors from the more
distant States.

Mr. SPAIGHT seconded the motion.

Mr. GERRY opposed it. He thought there was no ground to apprehend the
danger urged by Mr. Houston. The election of the Executive Magistrate
will be considered as of vast importance and will excite [2] great
earnestness. The best men, the Governours of the States will not hold it
derogatory from their character to be the electors. If the motion should
be agreed to, it will be necessary to make the Executive ineligible a
2d. time, in order to render him independent of the Legislature; which
was an idea extremely repugnant to his way of thinking.

Mr. STRONG supposed that there would be no necessity, if the Executive
should be appointed by the Legislature, to make him ineligible a 2d.
time; as new elections of the Legislature will have intervened; and he
will not depend for his 2d. appointment on the same sett of men as [3]
his first was recd. from. It had been suggested that gratitude for his
past appointment wd. produce the same effect as dependence for his
future appointment. He thought very differently. Besides this objection
would lie agst. the Electors who would be objects of gratitude as well
as the Legislature. It was of great importance not to make the Govt. too
complex which would be the case if a new sett of men like the Electors
should be introduced into it. He thought also that the first characters
in the States would not feel sufficient motives to undertake the office
of Electors.

Mr. WILLIAMSON was for going back to the original ground; to elect the
Executive for 7 years and render him ineligible a 2d. time. The proposed
Electors would certainly not be men of the 1st. nor even of the 2d.
grade in the States. These would all prefer a seat either [4] in the
Senate or the other branch of the Legislature. He did not like the Unity
in the Executive. He had wished the Executive power to be lodged in
three men taken from three districts into which the States should be
divided. As the Executive is to have a kind of veto on the laws, and
there is an essential difference of interests between the N. & S.
States, particularly in the carrying trade, the power will be dangerous,
if the Executive is to be taken from part of the Union, to the part from
which he is not taken. The case is different here from what it is in
England; where there is a sameness of interests throughout the Kingdom.
Another objection agst. a single Magistrate is that he will be an
elective King, and will feel the spirit of one. He will spare no pains
to keep himself in for life, and will then lay a train for the
succession of his children. It was pretty certain he thought that we
should at some time or other have a King; but he wished no precaution to
be omitted that might postpone the event as long as possible. --
Ineligibility a 2d. time appeared to him to be the best precaution. With
this precaution he had no objection to a longer term than 7 years. He
would go as far as 10 or 12 years.

Mr. GERRY moved that the Legislatures of the States should vote by
ballot for the Executive in the same proportions as it had been proposed
they should chuse electors; and that in case a majority of the votes
should not center on the same person, the 1st. branch of the Natl.
Legislature should chuse two out of the 4 candidates having most votes,
and out of these two, the 2d. branch should chuse the Executive.

Mr. KING seconded the motion -- and on the Question to postpone in order
to take it into consideration. The noes were so predominant, that the
States were not counted.

[5] Question on Mr. Houston's motion that the Executive be appd. by [6]
Nal. Legislature

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. no. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. no. Va. no. N.
C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [7]

Mr. L. MARTIN & Mr. GERRY moved to re-instate the ineligibility of the
Executive a 2d. time.

Mr. ELSEWORTH. With many this appears a natural consequence of his being
elected by the Legislature. It was not the case with him. The Executive
he thought should be reelected if his conduct proved him worthy of it.
And he will be more likely to render himself, worthy of it if he be
rewardable with it. The most eminent characters also will be more
willing to accept the trust under this condition, than if they foresee a
necessary degradation at a fixt period.

Mr. GERRY. That the Executive shd. be independent of the Legislature is
a clear point. The longer the duration of his appointment the more will
his dependence be diminished. It will be better then for him to continue
10, 15, or even 20, years and be ineligible afterwards.

Mr. KING was for making him re-eligible. This is too great an advantage
to be given up for the small effect it will have on his dependence, if
impeachments are to lie. He considered these as rendering the tenure
during pleasure.

Mr. L. MARTIN, suspending his motion as to the ineligibility, moved
"that the appointmt. of the Executive shall continue for Eleven years.

Mr. GERRY suggested fifteen years.

Mr. KING twenty years. This is the medium life of princes. [8]

Mr. DAVIE Eight years

Mr. WILSON. The difficulties & perplexities into which the House is
thrown proceed from the election by the Legislature which he was sorry
had been reinstated. The inconveniency [10] of this mode was such that
he would agree to almost any length of time in order to get rid of the
dependence which must result from it. He was persuaded that the longest
term would not be equivalent to a proper mode of election; unless indeed
it should be during good behaviour. It seemed to be supposed that at a
certain advance in life, a continuance in office would cease to be
agreeable to the officer, as well as desirable to the public. Experience
had shewn in a variety of instances that both a capacity & inclination
for public service existed -- in very advanced stages. He mentioned the
instance of a Doge of Venice who was elected after he was 80 years of
age. The popes have generally been elected at very advanced periods, and
yet in no case had a more steady or a better concerted policy been
pursued than in the Court of Rome. If the Executive should come into
office at 35. years of age, which he presumes may happen & his
continuance should be fixt at 15 years. at the age of 50. in the very
prime of life, and with all the aid of experience, he must be cast aside
like a useless hulk. What an irreparable loss would the British
Jurisprudence have sustained, had the age of 50. been fixt there as the
ultimate limit of capacity or readiness to serve the public. The great
luminary [Ld. Mansfield] held his seat for thirty years after his
arrival at that age. Notwithstanding what had been done he could not but
hope that a better mode of election would yet be adopted; and one that
would be more agreeable to the general sense of the House. That time
might be given for further deliberation he wd. move that the present
question be postponed till tomorrow.

Mr. BROOM seconded the motion to postpone.

Mr. GERRY. We seem to be entirely at a loss on this head. He would
suggest whether it would not be adviseable to refer the clause relating
to the Executive to the Committee of detail to be appointed. Perhaps
they will be able to hit on something that may unite the various
opinions which have been thrown out.

Mr. WILSON. As the great difficulty seems to spring from the mode of
election, he wd. suggest a mode which had not been mentioned. It was
that the Executive be elected for 6 years by a small number, not more
than 15 of the Natl. Legislature, to be drawn from it, not by ballot,
but by lot and who should retire immediately and make the election
without separating. By this mode intrigue would be avoided in the first
instance, and the dependence would be diminished. This was not he said a
digested idea and might be liable to strong objections.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. Of all possible modes of appointment that by the
Legislature is the worst. If the Legislature is to appoint, and to
impeach or to influence the impeachment, the Executive will be the mere
creature of it. He had been opposed to the impeachment but was now
convinced that impeachments must be provided for, if the appt. was to be
of any duration. No man wd. say, that an Executive known to be in the
pay of an Enemy, should not be removeable in some way or other. He had
been charged heretofore [by Col. Mason] with inconsistency in pleading
for confidence in the Legislature on some occasions, & urging a distrust
on others. The charge was not well founded. The Legislature is worthy of
unbounded confidence in some respects, and liable to equal distrust in
others. When their interest coincides precisely with that of their
Constituents, as happens in many of their Acts, no abuse of trust is to
be apprehended. When a strong personal interest happens to be opposed to
the general interest, the Legislature can not be too much distrusted. In
all public bodies there are two parties. The Executive will necessarily
be more connected with one than with the other. There will be a personal
interest therefore in one of the parties to oppose as well as in the
other to support him. Much had been said of the intrigues that will be
practised by the Executive to get into office. Nothing had been said on
the other side of the intrigues to get him out of office. Some leader of
[11] party will always covet his seat, will perplex his administration,
will cabal with the Legislature, till he succeeds in supplanting him.
This was the way in which the King of England was got out, he meant the
real King, the Minister. This was the way in which Pitt [Ld. Chatham]
forced himself into place. Fox was for pushing the matter still farther.
If he carried his India bill, which he was very near doing, he would
have made the Minister, the King in form almost as well as in substance.
Our President will be the British Minister, yet we are about to make him
appointable by the Legislature. Something had been said of the danger of
Monarchy. If a good government should not now be formed, if a good
organization of the Execuve should not be provided, he doubted whether
we should not have something worse than a limited Monarchy. In order to
get rid of the dependence of the Executive on the Legislature, the
expedient of making him ineligible a 2d. time had been devised. This was
as much as to say we shd. give him the benefit of experience, and then
deprive ourselves of the use of it. But make him ineligible a 2d. time
-- and prolong his duration even to 15 -- years, will he by any
wonderful interposition of providence at that period cease to be a man?
No he will be unwilling to quit his exaltation, the road to his object
thro' the Constitution will be shut; he will be in possession of the
sword, a civil war will ensue, and the Commander of the victorious army
on which ever side, will be the despot of America. This consideration
renders him particularly anxious that the Executive should be properly
constituted. The vice here would not, as in some other parts of the
system be curable. It is the most difficult of all rightly to balance
the Executive. Make him too weak: The Legislature will usurp his powers:
Make him too strong. He will usurp on the Legislature. He preferred a
short period, a re-eligibility, but a different mode of election. A long
period would prevent an adoption of the plan: it ought to do so. He shd.
himself be afraid to trust it. He was not prepared to decide on Mr.
Wilson's mode of election just hinted by him. He thought it deserved
consideration It would be better that chance sd. decide than intrigue.

On a [12] question to postpone the consideration of the Resolution on
the subject of the Executive

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. divd. Md. ay. Va. ay.
N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [13]

Mr. WILSON then moved that the Executive be chosen every ______ years by
______ Electors to be taken by lot from the Natl Legislature who shall
proceed immediately to the choice of the Executive and not separate
until it be made."

Mr. CARROL 2ds. the motion 

Mr. GERRY. this is committing too much to chance. If the lot should fall
on a sett of unworthy men, an unworthy Executive must be saddled on the
Country. He thought it had been demonstrated that no possible mode of
electing by the Legislature could be a good one.

Mr. KING. The lot might fall on a majority from the same State which wd.
ensure the election of a man from that State. We ought to be governed by
reason, not by chance. As nobody seemed to be satisfied, he wished the
matter to be postponed.

Mr. WILSON did not move this as the best mode. His opinion remained
unshaken that we ought to resort to the people for the election. He
seconded the postponement.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS observed that the chances were almost infinite agst. a
majority of electors from the same State.

On a question whether the last motion was in order, it was determined in
the affirmative; 7. ays. 4 noes.

On the question of postponent. it was agreed to nem. con.

Mr. CARROL took occasion to observe that he considered the clause
declaring that direct taxation on the States should be in proportion to
representation, previous to the obtaining an actual census, as very
objectionable, and that he reserved to himself the right of opposing it,
if the Report of the Committee of detail should leave it in the plan. 

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS hoped the Committee would strike out the whole of the
clause proportioning direct taxation to representation. He had only
meant it as a [14] bridge to assist us over a certain gulph; having
passed the gulph the bridge may be removed. He thought the principle
laid down with so much strictness, liable to strong objections.

On a ballot for a Committee to report a Constitution conformable to the
Resolutions passed by the Convention, the members chosen were Mr.
Rutlidge, Mr. Randolph, Mr. Ghorum, Mr. Elseworth, Mr. Wilson -- 

On motion to discharge the Come. of the whole from the propositions
submitted to the Convention by Mr. C. Pinkney as the basis of a
constitution, and to refer them to the Committee of detail just
appointed, it was agd. to nem: con.

A like motion was then made & agreed to nem: con: with respect to the
propositions of Mr. Patterson.

Adjourned.

___________

1. The word "being" is here inserted in the transcript.

2. The word "create" is substituted in the transcript for "excite."

3. The word "that" is substituted in the transcript for "as."

4. The word "either" is omitted in the transcript.

5. The words "On the" are here inserted in the transcript.

6. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

7. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New
Jersey, Delaware, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 7;
Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, no -- 4."

8. This might possibly be meant as a carricature of the previous motions
in order to defeat the object of them. Transfer hither. [9]

9. Madison's direction concerning the footnote is omitted in the transcript.

10. The word "inconveniency" is changed to "inconvenience" in the
transcript.

11. The word "a" is here inserted in the transcript.

12. The word "the" is substituted in the transcript for "a."

13. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, Pennsylvania,
Maryland, Virginia, aye -- 4; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New Jersey,
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 6."

14. The object was to lessen the eagerness on one side, [16] & the
opposition on the other, to the share of representation claimed by the
S. Southern States on account of the Negroes.

15. The N.B. to be transferred hither without the N.B. [17]

16. The word "for" is here inserted in the transcript.

17. Madison's direction concerning the footnote is ommitted in the
transcript.


