MONDAY.  JULY 23.  IN CONVENTION

Mr. John Langdon & Mr. Nicholas Gilman from N. Hampshire, took
their seats.

Resoln.: 17. [1] that provision ought to be made for future amendments
of the articles of Union, [2] agreed to, nem. con.

Resoln. 18. [3] "requiring the Legis: Execut: & Judy. of the States to
be bound by oath to support the articles of Union," [2] taken into
consideration.

Mr. WILLIAMSON suggests that a reciprocal oath should be required from
the National officers, to support the Governments of the States.

Mr. GERRY moved to insert as an amendmt. that the oath of the officers
of the National Government also should extend to the support of the
Natl. Govt. which was agreed to nem. con.

Mr. WILSON said he was never fond of oaths, considering them as a left
handed security only. A good Govt. did not need them, and a bad one
could not or ought not to be supported. He was afraid they might too
much trammel the members of the Existing Govt -- in case future
alterations should be necessary; and prove an obstacle to Resol: 17. [1]
just agd. to.

Mr. GHORUM did not know that oaths would be of much use; but could see
no inconsistency between them and the 17. Resol: or any regular amendt.
of the Constitution. The oath could only require fidelity to the
existing Constitution. A constitutional alteration of the Constitution,
could never be regarded as a breach of the Constitution, or of any oath
to support it.

Mr. GERRY thought with Mr. Ghorum there could be no shadow of
inconsistency in the case. Nor could he see any other harm that could
result from the Resolution. On the other side he thought one good effect
would be produced by it. Hitherto the officers of the two Governments
had considered them as distinct from, [4] not as parts of the General
System, & had in all cases of interference given a preference to the
State Govts. The proposed oaths will cure that error.

The Resoln. [18 [5]] was agreed to nem. con. -- 

Resol: 19. [6] "referring the new Constitution to Assemblies to be
chosen by the people for the express purpose of ratifying it" was next
taken into consideration.

Mr. ELSEWORTH moved that it be referred to the Legislatures of the
States for ratification. Mr. PATTERSON 2ded. the motion.

Col. MASON considered a reference of the plan to the authority of the
people as one of the most important and essential of the Resolutions.
The Legislatures have no power to ratify it. They are the mere creatures
of the State Constitutions, and can not be greater than their creators.
And he knew of no power in any of the Constitutions, he knew there was
no power in some of them, that could be competent to this object.
Whither then must we resort? To the people with whom all power remains
that has not been given up in the Constitutions derived from them. It
was of great moment he observed that this doctrine should be cherished
as the basis of free Government. Another strong reason was that
admitting the Legislatures to have a competent authority, it would be
wrong to refer the plan to them, because succeeding Legislatures having
equal authority could undo the acts of their predecessors; and the
National Govt. would stand in each State on the weak and tottering
foundation of an Act of Assembly. There was a remaining consideration of
some weight. In some of the States the Govts. were not derived from the
clear & undisputed authority of the people. This was the case in
Virginia Some of the best & wisest citizens considered the Constitution
as established by an assumed authority. A National Constitution derived
from such a source would be exposed to the severest criticisms.

Mr. RANDOLPH. One idea has pervaded all our proceedings, to wit, that
opposition as well from the States as from individuals, will be made to
the System to be proposed. Will it not then be highly imprudent, to
furnish any unnecessary pretext by the mode of ratifying it. Added to
other objections agst. a ratification by Legislative authority only, it
may be remarked that there have been instances in which the authority of
the Common law has been set up in particular States agst. that of the
Confederation which has had no higher sanction than Legislative
ratification. Whose opposition will be most likely to be excited agst.
the System? That of the local demagogues who will be degraded by it from
the importance they now hold. These will spare no efforts to impede that
progress in the popular mind which will be necessary to the adoption of
the plan, and which every member will find to have taken place in his
own, if he will compare his present opinions with those brought with him
into the Convention. It is of great importance therefore that the
consideration of this subject should be transferred from the
Legislatures where this class of men, have their full influence to a
field in which their efforts can be less mischeivous. It is moreover
worthy of consideration that some of the States are averse to any change
in their Constitution, and will not take the requisite steps, unless
expressly called upon to refer the question to the people.

Mr. GERRY. The arguments of Col. Mason & Mr. Randolph prove too much.
they prove an unconstitutionality in the present federal system even in
some of the State Govts. Inferences drawn from such a source must be
inadmissible. Both the State Govts. & the federal Govt. have been too
long acquiesced in, to be now shaken. He considered the Confederation to
be paramount to any State Constitution. The last article of it
authorizing alterations must consequently be so as well as the others,
and every thing done in pursuance of the article must have the same high
authority with the article. -- Great confusion he was confident would
result from a recurrence to the people. They would never agree on any
thing. He could not see any ground to suppose that the people will do
what their rulers will not. The rulers will either conform to, or
influence the sense of the people.

Mr. GHORUM was agst. referring the plan to the Legislatures. 1. Men
chosen by the people for the particular purpose, will discuss the
subject more candidly than members of the Legislature who are to lose
the power which is to be given up to the Genl. Govt. 2. Some of the
Legislatures are composed of several branches. It will consequently be
more difficult in these cases to get the plan through the Legislatures,
than thro' a Convention. 3. in the States many of the ablest men are
excluded from the Legislatures, but may be elected into a Convention.
Among these may be ranked many of the Clergy who are generally friends
to good Government. Their services were found to be valuable in the
formation & establishment of the Constitution of Massachts. 4. the
Legislatures will be interrupted with a variety of little business, by
artfully pressing which, designing men will find means to delay from
year to year, if not to frustrate altogether, the national system. 5. If
the last art: of the Confederation is to be pursued the unanimous
concurrence of the States will be necessary. But will any one say, that
all the States are to suffer themselves to be ruined, if Rho. Island
should persist in her opposition to general measures. Some other States
might also tread in her steps. The present advantage which N. York seems
to be so much attached to, of taxing her neighbours by the regulation of
her trade, makes it very probable, that she will be of the number. It
would therefore deserve serious consideration whether provision ought
not to be made for giving effect to the System without waiting for the
unanimous concurrence of the States.

Mr. ELSEWORTH. If there be any Legislatures who should find themselves
incompetent to the ratification, he should be content to let them advise
with their constituents and pursue such a mode as wd. be competent. He
thought more was to be expected from the Legislatures than from the
people. The prevailing wish of the people in the Eastern States is to
get rid of the public debt; and the idea of strengthening the Natl.
Govt. carries with it that of strengthening the public debt. It was said
by Col. Mason 1. [7] that the Legislatures have no authority in this
case. 2. [8] that their successors having equal authority could rescind
their acts. As to the 2d. point he could not admit it to be well
founded. An Act to which the States by their Legislatures, make
themselves parties, becomes a compact from which no one of the parties
can recede of itself. As to the 1st. point, he observed that a new sett
of ideas seemed to have crept in since the articles of Confederation
were established. Conventions of the people, or with power derived
expressly from the people, were not then thought of. The Legislatures
were considered as competent. Their ratification has been acquiesced in
without complaint. To whom have Congs. applied on subsequent occasions
for further powers? To the Legislatures; not to the people. The fact is
that we exist at present, and we need not enquire how, as a federal
Society, united by a charter one article of which is that alterations
therein may be made by the Legislative authority of the States. It has
been said that if the confederation is to be observed, the States must
unanimously concur in the proposed innovations. He would answer that if
such were the urgency & necessity of our situation as to warrant a new
compact among a part of the States, founded on the consent of the
people; the same pleas would be equally valid in favor of a partial
compact, founded on the consent of the Legislatures.

Mr. WILLIAMSON thought the Resoln.: [19 [9]] so expressed as that it
might be submitted either to the Legislatures or to Conventions
recommended by the Legislatures. He observed that some Legislatures were
evidently unauthorized to ratify the system. He thought too that
Conventions were to be preferred as more likely to be composed of the
ablest men in the States.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS considered the inference of Mr. Elseworth from the plea
of necessity as applied to the establishment of a new System on ye.
consent of the people of a part of the States, in favor of a like
establishment. on the consent of a part of the Legislatures as a non
sequitur. If the Confederation is to be pursued no alteration can be
made without the unanimous consent of the Legislatures: Legislative
alterations not conformable to the federal compact, would clearly not be
valid. The Judges would consider them as null & void. Whereas in case of
an appeal to the people of the U. S., the supreme authority, the federal
compact may be altered by a majority of them; in like manner as the
Constitution of a particular State may be altered by a majority of the
people of the State. The amendmt. moved by Mr. Elseworth erroneously
supposes that we are proceeding on the basis of the Confederation. This
Convention is unknown to the Confederation.

Mr. KING thought with Mr. Elseworth that the Legislatures had a
competent authority, the acquiescence of the people of America in the
Confederation, being equivalent to a formal ratification by the people.
He thought with Mr. E -- also that the plea of necessity was as valid in
the one case as in [10] the other. At the same time he preferred a
reference to the authority of the people expressly delegated to
Conventions, as the most certain means of obviating all disputes &
doubts concerning the legitimacy of the new Constitution; as well as the
most likely means of drawing forth the best men in the States to decide
on it. He remarked that among other objections made in the State of N.
York to granting powers to Congs. one had been that such powers as would
operate within the State, [11] could not be reconciled to the
Constitution; and therefore were not grantible by the Legislative
authority. He considered it as of some consequence also to get rid of
the scruples which some members of the State Legislatures might derive
from their oaths to support & maintain the existing Constitutions.

Mr. MADISON thought it clear that the Legislatures were incompetent to
the proposed changes. These changes would make essential inroads on the
State Constitutions, and it would be a novel & dangerous doctrine that a
Legislature could change the constitution under which it held its
existence. There might indeed be some Constitutions within the Union,
which had given a power to the Legislature to concur in alterations of
the federal Compact. But there were certainly some which had not; and in
the case of these, a ratification must of necessity be obtained from the
people. He considered the difference between a system founded on the
Legislatures only, and one founded on the people, to be the true
difference between a league or treaty, and a Constitution. The former in
point of moral obligation might be as inviolable as the latter. In point
of political operation, there were two important distinctions in favor
of the latter. 1. [12] A law violating a treaty ratified by a
pre-existing law, might be respected by the Judges as a law, though an
unwise or perfidious one. A law violating a constitution established by
the people themselves, would be considered by the Judges as null & void.
2. [12] The doctrine laid down by the law of Nations in the case of
treaties is that a breach of any one article by any of the parties,
frees the other parties from their engagements. In the case of a union
of people under one Constitution, the nature of the pact has always been
understood to exclude such an interpretation. Comparing the two modes in
point of expediency he thought all the considerations which recommended
this Convention in preference to Congress for proposing the reform were
in favor of State Conventions in preference to the Legislatures for
examining and adopting it.

On [13] question on Mr. Elseworth's motion to refer the plan to the
Legislatures of the States

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. ay. no. [14] Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. no. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [15]

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved that the reference of the plan be made to one
general Convention, chosen & authorized by the people to consider,
amend, & establish the same. -- Not seconded . On [13] question for
agreeing to Resolution 19. [16] touching the mode of Ratification as
reported from the Committee of the Whole; viz, to refer the Constn.
after the approbation of Congs. to assemblies chosen by the people:

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay. N. C. ay. S.
C. ay. Geo. ay. [17]

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS & Mr. KING moved that the representation in the second
branch consist of _____ members from each State, who shall vote per
capita.

Mr. ELSEWORTH said he had always approved of voting in that mode.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved to fill the blank [18] with three. He wished the
Senate to be a pretty numerous body. If two members only should be
allowed to each State, and a majority be made a quorum, the power would
be lodged in 14 members, which was too small a number for such a trust.

Mr. GHORUM preferred two to three members for the blank. A small number
was most convenient for deciding on peace & war &c. which he expected
would be vested in the 2d. branch. The number of States will also
increase. Kentucky, Vermont, the Province of Mayne & Franklin will
probably soon be added to the present number. He presumed also that some
of the largest States would be divided. The strength of the General
Govt. will lie not in the largeness, but in the smallness of the States.

Col. MASON thought 3 from each State including new States would make the
2d. branch too numerous. Besides other objections, the additional
expense ought always to form one, where it was not absolutely necessary:

Mr. WILLIAMSON. If the number be too great, the distant States will not
be on an equal footing with the nearer States. The latter can more
easily send & support their ablest Citizens. He approved of the voting
per capita.

On the question for filling the blank with "three."

N. H. no. Mas. no. Cont. no. Pa. ay. Del. no. Va. no. N. C. no. S. C.
no. Geo. no. [19]

On [20] question for filling it with "two." Agreed to nem. con.

Mr. L MARTIN was opposed to voting per Capita, as departing from the
idea of the States being represented in the 2d. branch.

Mr. Carrol, was not struck with any particular objection agst. the mode;
but he did not wish so hastily to make so material an innovation.

On the question on the whole motion viz. the 2d. b. to consist of 2
members from each State and to vote per capita."

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. no. Va. ay. N. C. ay. S.
C. ay. Geo. ay. [21]

Mr. HOUSTON & Mr. SPAIGHT moved "that the appointment of the Executive
by Electors chosen by the Legislatures of the States, be reconsidered."
Mr. Houston urged the extreme inconveniency & the considerable expense,
of drawing together men from all the States for the single purpose of
electing the Chief Magistrate.

On the question which was put without any [22] debate.

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. no. Virga. no. N. C. ay.
S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [23]

Ordered that tomorrow be assigned for the reconsideration. Cont. & Pena.
no -- all the rest ay.

Mr. GERRY moved that the proceedings of the Convention for the
establishment of a Natl. Govt. (except the part relating to the
Executive), be referred to a Committee to prepare & report a
Constitution conformable thereto.

GENl. PINKNEY reminded the Convention that if the Committee should fail
to insert some security to the Southern States agst. an emancipation of
slaves, and taxes on exports, he shd. be bound by duty to his State to
vote agst. their Report -- The appt. of a Come. as moved by Mr. Gerry.
[24] Agd. to nem. con.

[25] Shall the Come. consist of 10 members one from each State prest.?
All the States were no, except Delaware ay.

Shall it consist of 7. members.

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. no. N. C. no. S.
C. ay. Geo. no. [26] The question being lost by an equal division of
Votes.

It was agreed nem -- con -- that the Comttee [27] consist of 5 members,
to be appointed tomorrow.

Adjourned

___________

1. The words "The seventeenth Resolution" are substituted in the
transcript for "Resoln. 17."

2. The Word "was" is here inserted in the transcript.

3. The words "The eighteenth Resolution" are substituted in the
transcript for "Resoln. 18."

4. The word "and" is here inserted in the transcript.

5. The words "the eighteenth" are substituted in the transcript for
"18."

6. The words "The nineteenth Resolution" are substituted in the
transcript for "Resol: 19."

7. The figure "1" is changed to "in the first place" in the transcript.

8. The figure "2" is changed to "and in the second" in the transcript.

9. The words "the nineteenth" are substituted in the transcript for "19."

10. The word "in" is omitted in the transcript.

11. The transcript uses the word "State" in the plural.

12. The figures "1" and "2" are changed to "First" and "Secondly" in the
transcript.

13. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

14. The entry in the notes was originally "N.J. no." Madison struck out
"N.J." but inadvertently let "no" remain.

15. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland,
aye -- 3; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 7."

16. The words "the nineteenth Resolution" are substituted in the
transcript for "Resolution 19."

17. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 9; Delaware, no -- 1."

18. The transcript does not italicise the word "blank."

19. In the transcript the vote reads: "Pennsylvania, aye -- 1; New
Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Delaware, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8."

20. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

21. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Virginia, North Carolina, Georgia,
aye -- 9; Maryland, no -- 1."

22. The word "any" is omitted in the transcript.

23. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, Delaware, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye --
7; Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, no -- 3."

24. The word "was" is here inserted in the transcript.

25. The words "On the question" are here inserted in the transcript.

26. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, Maryland, South Carolina, aye -- 5; Pennsylvania, Delaware,
Virginia, North Carolina, Georgia, no -- 5."

27. The word "should" is here inserted in the transcript.


