WEDNESDAY  AUGst 8.   IN CONVENTION

Art: IV. Sect. I. [1, 2] -- Mr. MERCER expressed his dislike of the
whole plan, and his opinion that it never could succeed.

Mr. GHORUM. he had never seen any inconveniency [3] from allowing such
as were not freeholders to vote, though it had long been tried. The
elections in Phila. N. York & Boston where the Merchants, & Mechanics
vote are at least as good as those made by freeholders only. The case in
England was not accurately stated yesterday [by Mr. Madison] The Cities
& large towns are not the seat of Crown influence & corruption. These
prevail in the Boroughs, and not on account of the right which those who
are not freeholders have to vote, but of the smallness of the number who
vote. The people have been long accustomed to this right in various
parts of America, and will never allow it to be abridged. We must
consult their rooted prejudices if we expect their concurrence in our
propositions.

Mr. MERCER did not object so much to an election by the people at large
including such as were not freeholders, as to their being left to make
their choice without any guidance. He hinted that Candidates ought to be
nominated by the State Legislatures.

On [4] question for agreeing to Art: IV -- Sect. 1 it passd. nem. con.

Art IV. Sect. 2 1, 5 taken up.

Col. MASON was for opening a wide door for emigrants; but did not chuse
to let foreigners and adventurers make laws for us & govern us.
Citizenship for three years was not enough for ensuring that local
knowledge which ought to be possessed by the Representative. This was
the principal ground of his objection to so short a term. It might also
happen that a rich foreign Nation, for example Great Britain, might send
over her tools who might bribe their way into the Legislature for
insidious purposes. He moved that "seven" years instead of "three," be
inserted.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS 2ded. the Motion, & on the question, all the States
agreed to it except Connecticut.

Mr. SHERMAN moved to strike out the word "resident" and insert
"inhabitant," as less liable to miscontruction.

Mr. MADISON 2ded. the motion, both were vague, but the latter least so
in common acceptation, and would not exclude persons absent occasionally
for a considerable time on public or private business. Great disputes
had been raised in Virga. concerning the meaning of residence as a
qualification of Representatives which were determined more according to
the affection or dislike to the man in question, than to any fixt
interpretation of the word.

Mr. WILSON preferred "inhabitant."

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS, was opposed to both and for requiring nothing more
than a freehold. He quoted great disputes in N. York occasioned by these
terms, which were decided by the arbitrary will of the majority. Such a
regulation is not necessary. People rarely chuse a nonresident -- It is
improper as in the 1st. branch, the people at large, not the States, are
represented.

Mr. RUTLIDGE urged & moved that a residence of 7 years shd. be required
in the State Wherein the Member shd. be elected. An emigrant from N.
England to S. C. or Georgia would know little of its affairs and could
not be supposed to acquire a thorough knowledge in less time.

Mr. READ reminded him that we were now forming a Natil. Govt. and such a
regulation would correspond little with the idea that we were one
people.

Mr. WILSON. enforced the same consideration.

Mr. MADISON suggested the case of new States in the West, which could
have perhaps no representation on that plan.

Mr. MERCER. Such a regulation would present a greater alienship among
the States [6] than existed under the old federal system. It would
interweave local prejudices & State distinctions in the very
Constitution which is meant to cure them. He mentioned instances of
violent disputes raised in Maryland concerning the term "residence"

Mr. ELSEWORTH thought seven years of residence was by far too long a
term: but that some fixt term of previous residence would be proper. He
thought one year would be sufficient, but seemed to have no objection to
three years.

Mr. DICKENSON proposed that it should read "inhabitant actually resident
for ______ year. [7] This would render the meaning less indeterminate.

Mr. WILSON. If a short term should be inserted in the blank, so strict
an expression might be construed to exclude the members of the
Legislature, who could not be said to be actual residents in their
States whilst at the Seat of the Genl. Government.

Mr. MERCER. It would certainly exclude men, who had once been
inhabitants, and returning from residence elsewhere to resettle in their
original State; although a want of the necessary knowledge could not in
such case [8] be presumed.

Mr. MASON thought 7 years too long, but would never agree to part with
the principle. It is a valuable principle. He thought it a defect in the
plan that the Representatives would be too few to bring with them all
the local knowledge necessary. If residence be not required, Rich men of
neighbouring States, may employ with success the means of corruption in
some particular district and thereby get into the public Councils after
having failed in their own State. [9] This is the practice in the
boroughs of England. 

On the question for postponing in order to consider Mr. Dickensons
motion.

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. no. N.
C. no. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [10]

On the question for inserting "inhabitant" in place of "resident" --
agd. to nem. con.

Mr. ELSEWORTH & Col. MASON move to insert "one year" for previous
inhabitancy

Mr. WILLIAMSON liked the Report as it stood. He thought "resident" a
good eno' term. He was agst. requiring any period of previous residence.
New residents if elected will be most zealous to Conform to the will of
their constituents, as their conduct will be watched with a more jealous
eye.

Mr. BUTLER & Mr. RUTLIDGE moved "three years" instead of "one year" for
previous inhabitancy

On the question for 3 years -- 

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no. N.
C. no. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [11]

On the question for "1 year"

N. H. no -- Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. divd. Va.
no. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [12]

Art. IV. Sect. 2. As amended in manner preceding, was agreed to nem.
con.

Art: IV. Sect. 3." [13, 14] taken up.

Genl. PINKNEY & Mr. PINKNEY moved that the number of representatives
allotted to S. Carola. be "six" on the question, N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct.
no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Delaware ay Md. no. Va. no. N. C. ay. S. C. ay.
Geo. ay. [15]

The 3. Sect. of Art: IV was then agreed to.

Art: IV. Sect. 4 [13, 14] taken up.

Mr. WILLIAMSON moved to strike out "according to the provisions
hereinafter after made" and to insert the words "according "to the rule
hereafter to be provided for direct taxation" -- See Art. VII. sect. 3.
[16]

On the question for agreeing to Mr. Williamson's amendment

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay. N.
C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [17]

Mr. KING wished to know what influence the vote just passed was meant
[18] have on the succeeding part of the Report, concerning the admission
of slaves into the rule of Representation. He could not reconcile his
mind to the article if it was to prevent objections to the latter part.
The admission of slaves was a most grating circumstance to his mind, &
he believed would be so to a great part of the people of America. He had
not made a strenuous opposition to it heretofore because he had hoped
that this concession would have produced a readiness which had not been
manifested, to strengthen the Genl. Govt. and to mark a full confidence
in it. The Report under consideration had by the tenor of it, put an end
to all those hopes. In two great points the hands of the Legislature
were absolutely tied. The importation of slaves could not be prohibited
-- exports could not be taxed. Is this reasonable? What are the great
objects of the Genl. System? 1. [19] defence agst. foreign invasion. 2.
[19] agst. internal sedition. Shall all the States then be bound to
defend each; & shall each be at liberty to introduce a weakness which
will render defence more difficult? Shall one part of the U. S. be bound
to defend another part, and that other part be at liberty not only to
increase its own danger, but to withhold the compensation for the
burden? If slaves are to be imported shall not the exports produced by
their labor, supply a revenue the better to enable the Genl. Govt. to
defend their masters? -- There was so much inequality & unreasonableness
in all this, that the people of the Northern States could never be
reconciled to it. No candid man could undertake to justify it to them.
He had hoped that some accomodation wd. have taken place on this
subject; that at least a time wd. have been limited for the importation
of slaves. He never could agree to let them be imported without
limitation & then be represented in the Natl. Legislature. Indeed he
could so little persuade himself of the rectitude of such a practice,
that he was not sure he could assent to it under any circumstances. At
all events, either slaves should not be represented, or exports should
be taxable.

Mr. SHERMAN regarded the slave trade as iniquitous; but the point of
representation having been settled after much difficulty & deliberation,
he did not think himself bound to make opposition; especially as the
present article as amended did not preclude any arrangement whatever on
that point in another place of the Report.

Mr. MADISON objected to 1 for every 40,000, inhabitants as a perpetual
rule. The future increase of population if the Union shd. be permanent,
will render the number of Representatives excessive.

Mr. GHORUM. It is not to be supposed that the Govt. will last so long as
to produce this effect. Can it be supposed that this vast Country
including the Western territory will 150 years hence remain one nation?

Mr. ELSEWORTH. If the Govt. should continue so long, alterations may be
made in the Constitution in the manner proposed in a subsequent article.

Mr. SHERMAN & Mr. MADISON moved to insert the words "not exceeding"
before the words "1 for every 40,000, which was agreed to nem. con.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved to insert "free" before the word inhabitants.
Much he said would depend on this point. He never would concur in
upholding domestic slavery. It was a nefarious institution. It was the
curse of heaven on the States where it prevailed. Compare the free
regions of the Middle States, where a rich & noble cultivation marks the
prosperity & happiness of the people, with the misery & poverty which
overspread the barren wastes of Va. Maryd. & the other States having
slaves. Travel thro' ye. whole Continent & you behold the prospect
continually varying with the appearance & disappearance of slavery. The
moment you leave ye. E. Sts. & enter N. York, the effects of the
institution become visible, passing thro' the Jerseys & entering Pa.
every criterion of superior improvement witnesses the change. Proceed
south wdly & every step you take thro' ye. great region of slaves
presents a desert increasing, with ye. increasing proportion of these
wretched beings. Upon what principle is it that the slaves shall be
computed in the representation? Are they men? Then make them Citizens
and let them vote. Are they property? Why then is no other property
included? The Houses in this city [Philada.] are worth more than all the
wretched slaves which cover the rice swamps of South Carolina. The
admission of slaves into the Representation when fairly explained comes
to this: that the inhabitant of Georgia and S. C. who goes to the Coast
of Africa, and in defiance of the most sacred laws of humanity tears
away his fellow creatures from their dearest connections & damns them to
the most cruel bondages, [20] shall have more votes in a Govt.
instituted for protection of the rights of mankind, than the Citizen of
Pa. or N. Jersey who views with a laudable horror, so nefarious a
practice. He would add that Domestic slavery is the most prominent
feature in the aristocratic countenance of the proposed Constitution.
The vassalage of the poor has ever been the favorite offspring of
Aristocracy. And What is the proposed compensation to the Northern
States for a sacrifice of every principle of right, of every impulse of
humanity. They are to bind themselves to march their militia for the
defence of the S. States; for their defence agst. those very slaves of
whom they complain. They must supply vessels & seamen in case of foreign
Attack. The Legislature will have indefinite power to tax them by
excises, and duties on imports: both of which will fall heavier on them
than on the Southern inhabitants; for the bohea tea used by a Northern
freeman, will pay more tax than the whole consumption of the miserable
slave, which consists of nothing more than his physical subsistence and
the rag that covers his nakedness. On the other side the Southern States
are not to be restrained from importing fresh supplies of wretched
Africans, at once to increase the danger of attack, and the difficulty
of defence; nay they are to be encouraged to it by an assurance of
having their votes in the Natl. Govt. increased in proportion, and are
at the same time to have their exports & their slaves exempt from all
contributions for the public service. Let it not be said that direct
taxation is to be proportioned to representation. It is idle to suppose
that the Genl. Govt. can stretch its hand directly into the pockets of
the people scattered over so vast a Country. They can only do it through
the medium of exports imports & excises. For what then are all these
sacrifices to be made? He would sooner submit himself to a tax for
paying for all the negroes in the U. States, than saddle posterity with
such a Constitution.

Mr. DAYTON 2ded. the motion. He did it he said that his sentiments on
the subject might appear whatever might be the fate of the amendment.

Mr. SHERMAN. did not regard the admission of the Negroes into the ratio
of representation, as liable to such insuperable objections. It was the
freemen of the Southn. States who were in fact to be represented
according to the taxes paid by them, and the Negroes are only included
in the Estimate of the taxes. This was his idea of the matter.

Mr. PINKNEY, considered the fisheries & the Western frontier as more
burdensome to the U. S. than the slaves. He thought this could be
demonstrated if the occasion were a proper one.

Mr. WILSON. thought the motion premature. An agreement to the clause
would be no bar to the object of it.

[21] Question On [22] motion to insert "free" before "inhabitants."

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [23]

On the suggestion of Mr. DICKENSON the words, "provided that each State
shall have one representative at least." -- were added nem. con.

Art. IV. Sect. 4. as amended was agreed to nem. con.

Art. IV. Sect. 5. [24, 25] taken up

Mr. PINKNEY moved to strike out Sect. 5. As giving no peculiar advantage
to the House of Representatives, and as clogging the Govt. If the Senate
can be trusted with the many great powers proposed, it surely may be
trusted with that of originating money bills. 

Mr. GHORUM. was agst. allowing the Senate to originate; but [26] only to
amend.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. It is particularly proper that the Senate shd. have
the right of originating money bills. They will sit constantly, will
consist of a smaller number, and will be able to prepare such bills with
due correctness; and so as to prevent delay of business in the other
House.

Col. MASON was unwilling to travel over this ground again. To strike out
the section, was to unhinge the compromise of which it made a part. The
duration of the Senate made it improper. He does not object to that
duration. On the Contrary he approved of it. But joined with the
smallness of the number, it was an argument against adding this to the
other great powers vested in that body. His idea of an Aristocracy was
that it was the governt. of the few over the many. An aristocratic body,
like the screw in mechanics, workig. its way by slow degrees, and
holding fast whatever it gains, should ever be suspected of an
encroaching tendency. The purse strings should never be put into its
hands.

Mr. MERCER. considered the exclusive power of originating Money bills as
so great an advantage, that it rendered the equality of votes in the Senate
ideal & of no consequence.

Mr. BUTLER was for adhering to the principle which had been settled.

Mr. WILSON was opposed to it on its merits without regard to the
compromise

Mr. ELSEWORTH did not think the clause of any consequence, but as it was
thought of consequence by some members from the larger States, he was
willing it should stand.

Mr. MADISON was for striking it out: considering it as of no advantage
to the large States as fettering the Govt. and as a source of injurious
altercations between the two Houses.

On the question for striking out "Sect. 5. Art. IV" N. H. no. Mas. no.
Ct. no. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay. N. C. no. S. C. ay.
Geo. ay. [27]

___________

1. See ante.

2. The words "being under consideration" are here inserted in the
transcript.

3. The word "inconveniency" is changed to "inconvenience" in the
transcript.

4. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

5. The words "was then" are here inserted in the transcript.

6. The phrase "among the States" is omitted in the transcript.

7. The transcript uses the word "year" in the plural.

8. The transcript uses the word "case" in the plural.

9. The transcript uses the word "State" in the plural.

10. In the transcript the vote reads: "Maryland, South Carolina,
Georgia, aye -- 3; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Virginia, North Carolina, no -- 8."

11. In the transcript the vote reads: "South Carolina, Georgia, aye --
2; New Hampshire, MAssachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, no -- 9."

12. In the transcript the vote reads: New Jersey, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 4; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Virginia, no -- 6; Maryland, divided."

13. See ante.

14. The words "was then" are here inserted in the transcript.

15. In the transcript the vote reads: Delaware, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 4; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut,
new Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, no -- 7."

16. See ante.

17. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 9; New Jersey, Delaware, no -- 2."

18. The word "to" is here inserted in the transcript.

19. The figures "1" and "2" are changed to "First" and "Secondly" in the
transcript.

20. The transcript uses the word "bondages" in the singular.

21. The words "On the" are here inserted in the transcript.

22. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

23. In the transcript the vote reads: New Jersey, aye -- 1; New
Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 10."

24. See ante.

25. The words "was then" are here inserted in the transcript.

26. The words "was for allowing it" are here inserted in the transcript.

27. In the transcript the vote reads: New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 7; New
Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, North Carolina, no -- 4."


