FRIDAY  JUNE 22.   IN CONVENTION

The clause in Resol. 3. [1] "to receive fixed stipends to be paid out of
the Nationl. Treasury" [2] considered.

Mr. ELSEWORTH, moved to substitute payment by the States out of their
own Treasurys: observing that the manners of different States were very
different in the Stile of living and in the profits accruing from the
exercise of like talents. What would be deemed therefore a reasonable
compensation in some States, in others would be very unpopular, and
might impede the system of which it made a part.

Mr. WILLIAMSON favored the idea. He reminded the House of the prospect
of new States to the Westward. They would be [3] poor -- would pay
little into the common Treasury -- and would have a different interest
from the old States. He did not think therefore that the latter ought to
pay the expences of men who would be employed in thwarting their
measures & interests.

Mr. GHORUM, wished not to refer the matter to the State Legislatures who
were always paring down salaries in such a manner as to keep out of
offices men most capable of executing the functions of them. He thought
also it would be wrong to fix the compensations [4] by the
constitutions, [4] because we could not venture to make it as liberal as
it ought to be without exciting an enmity agst. the whole plan. Let the
Natil. Legisl: provide for their own wages from time to time; as the
State Legislatures do. He had not seen this part of their power abused,
nor did he apprehend an abuse of it.

Mr. RANDOLPH [5] feared we were going too far, in consulting popular
prejudices. Whatever respect might be due to them, in lesser matters, or
in cases where they formed the permanent character of the people, he
thought it neither incumbent on nor honorable for the Convention, to
sacrifice right & justice to that consideration. If the States were to
pay the members of the Natl. Legislature, a dependence would be created
that would vitiate the whole System. The whole nation has an interest in
the attendance & services of the members. The Nationl. Treasury
therefore is the proper fund for supporting them.

Mr. KING, urged the danger of creating a dependence on the States by
leavg. to them the payment of the members of the Natl. Legislature. He
supposed it wd. be best to be explicit as to the compensation to be
allowed. A reserve on that point, or a reference to the Natl.
Legislature of the quantum, would excite greater opposition than any sum
that would be actually necessary or proper.

Mr. SHERMAN contended for referring both the quantum and the payment of
it to the State Legislatures.

Mr. WILSON was agst. fixing the compensation as circumstances would
change and call for a change of the amount. He thought it of great
moment that the members of the Natl. Govt. should be left as independent
as possible of the State Govts. in all respects.

Mr. MADISON concurred in the necessity of preserving the compensations
for the Natl. Govt. independent on the State Govts. but at the same time
approved of fixing them by the Constitution, which might be done by
taking a standard which wd. not vary with circumstances. He disliked
particularly the policy suggested by Mr. Wiliamson of leaving the
members from the poor States beyond the Mountains, to the precarious &
parsimonious support of their constituents. If the Western States
hereafter arising should be admitted into the Union, they ought to be
considered as equals & as brethren. If their representatives were to be
associated in the Common Councils, it was of common concern that such
provisions should be made as would invite the most capable and
respectable characters into the service.

Mr. HAMILTON apprehended inconveniency [6] from fixing the wages. He was
strenuous agst. making the National Council dependent on the Legislative
rewards of the States. Those who pay are the masters of those who are
paid. Payment by the States would be unequal as the distant States would
have to pay for the same term of attendance and more days in travelling
to & from the seat of the [7] Govt. He expatiated emphatically on the
difference between the feelings & views of the people -- & the
Governments of the States arising from the personal interest & official
inducements which must render the latter unfriendly to the Genl. Govt.

Mr. WILSON moved that the Salaries of the 1st. branch "be ascertained by
the National Legislature," [8] and be paid out of the Natl. Treasury.

Mr. MADISON, thought the members of the Legisl. too much interested to
ascertain their own compensation. It wd. be indecent to put their hands
into the public purse for the sake of their own pockets.

On this question [9] Mas. no. Cont. no. N. Y. divd. N. J. ay. Pa. ay.
Del. no. Md. no. Va. no. N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. divd. [10]

On the question for striking out "Natl. Treasury" as moved by Mr..
Elseworth.

Mr. HAMILTON renewed his opposition to it. He pressed the distinction
between [11] State Govts. & the people. The former wd. be the rivals of
the Genl. Govt. The State legislatures ought not therefore to be the
paymasters of the latter.

Mr. ELSEWORTH. If we are jealous of the State Govts. they will be so of
us. If on going home I tell them we gave the Gen: Govt. such powers
because we cd. not trust you, will they adopt it, and witht. yr.
approbation it is a nullity.

[12] Massts. ay. Cont. ay. N. Y. divd.; N. J. no Pena. no. Del. no. Md.
no. Va. no. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo.divd. [*13, 14]

On a question for substituting "adequate compensation" in place of "fixt
stipends" it was agreed to nem. con. the friends of the latter being
willing that the practicability of fixing the compensation should be
considered hereafter in forming the details.

It was then moved by Mr. BUTLER that a question be taken on both points
jointly; to wit "adequate compensation to be paid out of the Natl.
Treasury." It was objected to as out of order, the parts having been
separately decided on. The Presidt. referd. the question of order to the
House, and it was determined to be in order. Con. N. J. Del. Md. N. C.
S. C. -- ay -- [15] N. Y. Pa. Va. Geo. no -- [15] Mass: divided. The
question on the sentence was then postponed by S. Carolina in right of
the State.

Col. MASON moved to insert "twenty-five years of age as a qualification
for the members of the 1st. branch." He thought it absurd that a man to
day should not be permitted by the law to make a bargain for himself,
and tomorrow should be authorized to manage the affairs of a great
nation. It was the more extraordinary as every man carried with him in
his own experience a scale for measuring the deficiency of young
politicians; since he would if interrogated be obliged to declare that
his political opinions at the age of 21. were too crude & erroneous to
merit an influence on public measures. It had been said that Congs. had
proved a good school for our young men. It might be so for any thing he
knew but if it were, he chose that they should bear the expence of their
own education.

Mr. WILSON was agst. abridging the rights of election in any shape. It
was the same thing whether this were done by disqualifying the objects
of choice, or the persons chusing. The motion tended to damp the efforts
of genius, and of laudable ambition. There was no more reason for
incapacitating youth than age, where the requisite qualifications were
found. Many instances might be mentioned of signal services rendered in
high stations to the public before the age of 25: The present Mr. Pitt
and Lord Bolingbroke were striking instances. On the question for
inserting "25 years of age"

Massts. no. Cont. ay. N. Y. divd. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va.
ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. no. [16]

Mr. GHORUM moved to strike out the last member of 3 Resol: [17]
concerning ineligibility of members of the 1st. branch to offices [18]
during the term of their membership & for one year after. He considered
it as [19] unnecessary & injurious. It was true abuses had been
displayed in G. B. but no one cd. say how far they might have
contributed to preserve the due influence of the Govt. nor what might
have ensued in case the contrary theory had been tried.

Mr. BUTLER opposed it. This precaution agst. intrigue was necessary. He
appealed to the example of G. B. where men got [20] into Parlt. that
they might get offices for themselves or their friends. This was the
source of the corruption that ruined their Govt.

Mr. KING, thought we were refining too much. Such a restriction on the
members would discourage merit. It would also give a pretext to the
Executive for bad appointments, as he might always plead this as a bar
to the choice he wished to have made.

Mr. WILSON was agst. fettering elections, and discouraging merit. He
suggested also the fatal consequence in time of war, of rendering
perhaps the best Commanders ineligible: appealing [21] to our situation
during the late war, and indirectly leading to a recollection of the
appointment of the Commander in Chief out of Congress.

Col. MASON was for shutting the door at all events agst. corruption. He
enlarged on the venality and abuses in this particular in G. Britain:
and alluded to the multiplicity of foreign Embassies by Congs. The
disqualification he regarded as a corner stone in the fabric.

Col. HAMILTON. There are inconveniences on both sides. We must take man
as we find him, and if we expect him to serve the public must interest
his passions in doing so. A reliance on pure patriotism had been the
source of many of our errors. He thought the remark of Mr. Ghorum a just
one. It was impossible to say what wd be [22] effect in G. B. of such a
reform as had been urged. It was known that one of the ablest
politicians [Mr. Hume,] had pronounced all that influence on the side of
the crown, which went under the name of corruption, [23] an essential
part of the weight which maintained the equilibrium of the Constitution.

On Mr. Ghorum's Motion for striking out "ineligibility," [24]

Masts. ay. Cont. no. N. Y. divd. N. J. ay. Pa. divd. Del. divd. Mard.
no. Va. no. N. C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. ay. [25]

Adjd.

___________

1. The words "the third Resolution" are substituted in the transcript
for "Resol. 3."

2. The word 'being" is here inserted in the transcript.

3. The word "too" is here inserted in the transcript.

4. The transcript uses the words "conpensations" and "constitutions" in
the singular.

5. The words "said he" are here inserted in the transcript.

6. The word "inconveniency" is changed to "inconvenience" in the
transcript.

7. The word "the" is omitted in the transcript.

8. The transcript does not italicize the phrase "be ascertained by the
National Legislature."

9. The transcript here inserts the following: "shall the salaries of the
first branch be ascertained by the National Legislature?"

10. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Jersey, Pennsylvania, aye --
2; Massachusetts, Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, no -- 7; New York, Georgia, divided."

11. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

12. The words "On the question" are here inserted in the transcript.

*13. Note. [It appeared that Massts. concurred, not because they thought
the State Treasy. ought to be substituted; but because they thought
nothing should be said on the subject, in which case it wd. silently
devolve on the Natl. Treasury to support the National Legislature.]

14. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, [*13] Connecticut,
North Carolina, South Carolina, aye -- 4; New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, no -- 5; New York, Georgia, divided, so it
passed in the negative."

15. In the transcript the figures "6" and "4" are inserted after "ay"
and "no" respectively.

16. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New Jersey,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, aye -- 7;
Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Georgia, no -- 3; New York, divided."

17. The words "the third Resolution" are substituted in the transcript
for "3 Resol:"

18. The letter "s" is stricken out of the word "offices" in the
transcript.

19. The word "as" is stricken out in the transcript.

20. The word "get" is substituted in the transcript for "got."

21. The word "appealed" is substituted in the transcript for
"appealing."

22. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

23. The transcript italicizes the word "corruption."

24. The transcript here inserts the following: "it was lost by an equal
division of the votes."

25. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, New Jersey, North
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 4; Connecticut, Maryland, Virginia, South
Carolina, no -- 4; New York, Pennsylvania, Delaware, divided."


