TUESDAY  JULY 17.   IN CONVENTION

Mr. GOVERNr. MORRIS. moved to reconsider the whole Resolution agreed to
yesterday concerning the constitution of the 2 branches of the
Legislature. His object was to bring the House to a consideration in the
abstract of the powers necessary to be vested in the general Government.
It had been said, Let us know how the Govt. is to be modelled, and then
we can determine what powers can be properly given to it. He thought the
most eligible course was, first to determine on the necessary powers,
and then so to modify the Governt. as that it might be justly & properly
enabled to administer them. He feared if we proceeded to a consideration
of the powers, whilst the vote of yesterday including an equality of the
States in the 2d. branch, remained in force, a reference to it, either
mental or expressed, would mix itself with the merits of every question
concerning the powers. -- this motion was not seconded. [It was probably
approved by several members, who either despaired of success, or were
apprehensive that the attempt would inflame the jealousies of the
smaller States.]

The 6th. Resoln. in the Report of the Como. of the Whole relating to the
powers, which had been postponed in order to consider the 7 & 8th.
relating to the constitution of the Natl. Legislature, was now resumed.

Mr. SHERMAN observed that it would be difficult to draw the line between
the powers of the Genl. Legislatures, and those to be left with the
States; that he did not like the definition contained in the Resolution,
and proposed in [1] place of [2] the words "of [3] individual
Legislation" line 4. [4] inclusive, to insert "to make laws binding on
the people of the United States in all cases which may concern the
common interests of the Union; but not to interfere with the Government
of the individual States in any matters of internal police which respect
the Govt. of such States only, and wherein the general welfare of the U.
States is not concerned."

Mr. WILSON 2ded. the amendment as better expressing the general
principle.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS opposed it. The internal police, as it would be called
& understood by the States ought to be infringed in many cases, as in
the case of paper money & other tricks by which Citizens of other States
may be affected.

Mr. SHERMAN, in explanation of his idea read an enumeration of powers,
including the power of levying taxes on trade, but not the power of
direct taxation.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS remarked the omission, and inferred that for the
deficiencies of taxes on consumption, it must have been the meaning of
Mr. Sherman, that the Genl. Govt. should recur to quotas & requisitions,
which are subversive of the idea of Govt.

Mr. SHERMAN acknowledged that his enumeration did not include direct
taxation. Some provision he supposed must be made for supplying the
deficiency of other taxation, but he had not formed any.

On [5] Question of Mr. Sherman's motion, it passed in the negative

Mas. no. Cont. ay. N.J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. no. N.C. no.
S.C. no. Geo. no. [6]

Mr. BEDFORD moved that the 2d. member of Resolution 6. [7] be so altered
as to read "and moreover to legislate in all cases for the general
interests of the Union, and also in those to which the States are
separately [8] incompetent," or in which the harmony of the U. States
may be interrupted by the exercise of individual Legislation."

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS 2ds. the motion

Mr. RANDOLPH. This is a formidable idea indeed. It involves the power of
violating all the laws and constitutions of the States, and of
intermeddling with their police. The last member of the sentence is also
superfluous, being included in the first.

Mr. BEDFORD. It is not more extensive or formidable than the clause as
it stands: no State being separately competent to legislate for the
general interest of the Union.

On [9] question for agreeing to Mr. Bedford's motion, it passed in the
affirmative.

Mas. ay. Cont. no. N.J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. no. N.C. ay.
S.C. no. Geo. no. [10]

On the sentence as amended, it passed in the affirmative.

Mas. ay. Cont. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay. N.C.2y.
S.C. no. Geo. no. [11]

The next. [12] "To negative all laws passed by the several States
contravening in the opinion of the Nat: Legislature the articles of
Union, or any treaties subsisting under the authority of ye. Union" [13]

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS opposed this power as likely to be terrible to the
States, and not necessary, if sufficient Legislative authority should be
given to the Genl. Government.

Mr. SHERMAN thought it unnecessary, as the Courts of the States would
not consider as valid any law contravening the Authority of the Union,
and which the legislature would wish to be negatived.

Mr. L. MARTIN considered the power as improper & inadmissible. Shall all
the laws of the States be sent up to the Genl. Legislature before they
shall be permitted to operate?

Mr. MADISON, considered the negative on the laws of the States as
essential to the efficacy & security of the Genl. Govt. The necessity of
a general Govt. proceeds from the propensity of the States to pursue
their particular interests in opposition to the general interest. This
propensity will continue to disturb the system, unless effectually
controuled. Nothing short of a negative on their laws will controul it.
They can [14] pass laws which will accomplish their injurious objects
before they can be repealed by the Genl. Legislre. or be [15] set aside
by the National Tribunals. Confidence can not be put in the State
Tribunals as guardians of the National authority and interests. In all
the States these are more or less dependt. on the Legislatures. In
Georgia they are appointed annually by the Legislature. In R. Island the
Judges who refused to execute an unconstitutional law were displaced,
and others substituted, by the Legislature who would be [16] willing
instruments of the wicked & arbitrary plans of their masters. A power of
negativing the improper laws of the States is at once the most mild &
certain means of preserving the harmony of the system. Its utility is
sufficiently displayed in the British System. Nothing could maintain the
harmony & subordination of the various parts of the empire, but the
prerogative by which the Crown, stifles in the birth every Act of every
part tending to discord or encroachment. It is true the prerogative is
sometimes misapplied thro' ignorance or a partiality to one particular
part of ye. empire; but we have not the same reason to fear such
misapplications in our System. As to the sending all laws up to the
Natl. Legisl: that might be rendered unnecessary by some emanation of
the power into the States, so far at least, as to give a temporary
effect to laws of immediate necessity.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS was more & more opposed to the negative. The proposal
of it would disgust all the States. A law that ought to be negatived
will be set aside in the Judiciary departmt. and if that security should
fail; may be repealed by a Nationl. law.

Mr. SHERMAN. Such a power involves a wrong principle, to wit, that a law
of a State contrary to the articles of the Union, would if not
negatived, be valid & operative.

Mr. PINKNEY urged the necessity of the Negative. On the question for
agreeing to the power of negativing laws of States &c" it passed in the
negative.

Mas. ay. Ct. no. N.J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. ay. N.C. ay. S.C. no.
Geo. no. [17]

Mr. LUTHER MARTIN moved the following resolution "that the Legislative
acts of the U.S. made by virtue & in pursuance of the articles of Union,
and all Treaties made & ratified under the authority of the U. S. shall
be the supreme law of the respective States, as far as those acts or
treaties shall relate to the said States, or their Citizens and
inhabitants -- & that the Judiciaries of the several States shall be
bound thereby in their decisions, any thing in the respective laws of
the individual States to the contrary notwithstanding" which was agreed
to nem: con:

9th Resol: "that Natl. Executive consist of a single person." Agd. to
nem. con. [18]

[19] "To be chosen by the National Legisl:" [20]

Mr. GOVERNr. MORRIS was pointedly agst. his being so chosen. He will be
the mere creature of the Legisl: if appointed & impeachable by that
body. He ought to be elected by the people at large, by the freeholders
of the Country. That difficulties attend this mode, he admits. But they
have been found superable in N. Y. & in Cont. and would he believed be
found so, in the case of an Executive for the U. States. If the people
should elect, they will never fail to prefer some man of distinguished
character, or services; some man, if he might so speak, of continental
reputation. -- If the Legislature elect, it will be the work of
intrigue, of cabal, and of faction; it will be like the election of a
pope by a conclave of cardinals; real merit will rarely be the title to
the appointment. He moved to strike out "National Legislature" & insert
"citizens of [21] U.S."

Mr. SHERMAN thought that the sense of the Nation would be better
expressed by the Legislature, than by the people at large. The latter
will never be sufficiently informed of characters, and besides will
never give a majority of votes to any one man. They will generally vote
for some man in their own State, and the largest State will have the
best chance for the appointment. If the choice be made by the Legislre.
A majority of voices may be made necessary to constitute an election.

Mr. WILSON. two arguments have been urged agnt. an election of the
Executive Magistrate by the people. 1 [22] the example of Poland where
an Election of the supreme Magistrate is attended with the most
dangerous commotions. The cases he observed were totally dissimilar. The
Polish nobles have resources & dependents which enable them to appear in
force, and to threaten the Republic as well as each other. In the next
place the electors all assemble in [23] one place: which would not be
the case with us. The 2d. argt. is that a majority [24] of the people
would never concur. It might be answered that the concurrence of a
majority of [25] people is not a necessary principle of election, nor
required as such in any of the States. But allowing the objection all
its force, it may be obviated by the expedient used in Masts. where the
Legislature by [26] majority of voices, decide in case a majority of
people do not concur in favor of one of the candidates. This would
restrain the choice to a good nomination at least, and prevent in a
great degree intrigue & cabal. A particular objection with him agst. an
absolute election by the Legislre. was that the Exec: in that case would
be too dependent to stand the mediator between the intrigues & sinister
views of the Representatives and the general liberties & interests of
the people.

Mr. PINKNEY did not expect this question would again have been brought
forward; An Election by the people being liable to the most obvious &
striking objections. They will be led by a few active & designing men.
The most populous States by combining in favor of the same individual
will be able to carry their points. The Natl. Legislature being most
immediately interested in the laws made by themselves, will be most
attentive to the choice of a fit man to carry them properly into
execution.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. It is said that in case of an election by the people
the populous States will combine & elect whom they please. Just the
reverse. The people of such States cannot combine. If their be any
combination it must be among their representatives in the Legislature.
It is said the people will be led by a few designing men. This might
happen in a small district. It can never happen throughout the
continent. In the election of a Govr. of N. York, it sometimes is the
case in particular spots, that the activity & intrigues of little
partizans are successful, but the general voice of the State is never
influenced by such artifices. It is said the multitude will be
uninformed. It is true they would be uninformed of what passed in the
Legislative Conclave, if the election were to be made there; but they
will not be uninformed of those great & illustrious characters which
have merited their esteem & confidence. If the Executive be chosen by
the Natl. Legislature, he will not be independent on [27] it; and if not
independent, usurpation & tyranny on the part of the Legislature will be
the consequence. This was the case in England in the last Century. It
has been the case in Holland, where their Senates have engrossed all
power. It has been the case every where. He was surprised that an
election by the people at large should ever have been likened to the
polish election of the first Magistrate. An election by the Legislature
will bear a real likeness to the election by the Diet of Poland. The
great must be the electors in both cases, and the corruption & cabal
wch. are known to characterise the one would soon find their way into
the other. Appointments made by numerous bodies, are always worse than
those made by single responsible individuals, or by the people at large.

Col. MASON. It is curious to remark the different language held at
different times. At one moment we are told that the Legislature is
entitled to thorough confidence, and to indifinite power. At another,
that it will be governed by intrigue & corruption, and cannot be trusted
at all. But not to dwell on this inconsistency he would observe that a
Government which is to last ought at least to be practicable. Would this
be the case if the proposed election should be left to the people at
large. He conceived it would be as unnatural to refer the choice of a
proper character for chief Magistrate to the people, as it would, to
refer a trial of colours to a blind man. The extent of the Country
renders it impossible that the people can have the requisite capacity to
judge of the respective pretensions of the Candidates.

Mr. WILSON. could not see the contrariety stated [by Col. Mason] The
Legislre. might deserve confidence in some respects, and distrust in
others. In acts which were to affect them & yr. Constituents precisely
alike confidence was due. In others jealousy was warranted. The
appointment to great offices, where the Legislre. might feel many
motives, not common to the public confidence was surely misplaced. This
branch of business it was notorious was [28] most corruptly managed of
any that had been committed to legislative bodies.

Mr. WILLIAMSON, conceived that there was the same difference between an
election in this case, by the people and by the legislature, as between
an appt. by lot, and by choice. There are at present distinguished
characters, who are known perhaps to almost every man. This will not
always be the case. The people will be sure to vote for some man in
their own State, and the largest State will be sure to succeed. This
will not be Virga. however. Her slaves will have no suffrage. As the
Salary of the Executive will be fixed, and he will not be eligible a 2d.
time, there will not be such a dependence on the Legislature as has been
imagined.

[29] Question on an election by the people instead of the Legislature;
which [30] passed in the negative.

Mas. no. Cont. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no. N.C. no.
S.C. no. Geo. no. [31]

Mr. L. MARTIN moved that the Executive be chosen by Electors appointed
by the several Legislatures of the individual States.

Mr. BROOME 2ds. On the Question, it passed in the negative.

Mas. no. Cont. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. no. N.C. no.
S.C. no. Geo. no. [32]

On the question on the words "to be chosen by the Nationl. Legislature"
it passed unanimously in the affirmative.

"For the term of seven years" -- postponed nem. con. on motion of Mr.
Houston & [33] Gov. Morris

"to carry into execution the nationl. laws" -- agreed to nem. con.

"to appoint to offices in cases not otherwise provided for." -- agreed to
nem.con.

"to be ineligible a second time" -- Mr. HOUSTON moved to strike out this
clause.

Mr. SHERMAN 2ds. the motion.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS espoused the motion. The ineligibility proposed by the
clause as it stood tended to destroy the great motive to good behavior,
the hope of being rewarded by a re-appointment. It was saying to him,
make hay while the sun shines.

On the question for striking out as moved by Mr. Houston, it passed in
the affirmative

Mas. ay. Cont. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. no. N. C. no.
S.C. no. Geo. ay. [34]

[35] "For the term of 7 years" [36] resumed

Mr. BROOM was for a shorter term since the Executive Magistrate was now
to be re-eligible. Had he remained ineligible a 2d. time, he should have
preferred a longer term.

DOCr. Mc.CLURG moved [*37] to strike out 7 years, and insert "during good
behavior." By striking out the words declaring him not re-eligible, he
was put into a situation that would keep him dependent for ever on the
Legislature; and he conceived the independence of the Executive to be
equally essential with that of the Judiciary department.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS 2ded. the motion. He expressed great pleasure in
hearing it. This was the way to get a good Government. His fear that so
valuable an ingredient would not be attained had led him to take the
part he had done. He was indifferent how the Executive should be chosen,
provided he held his place by this tenure.

Mr. BROOME highly approved the motion. It obviated all his difficulties.

Mr. SHERMAN considered such a tenure as by no means safe or admissible.
As the Executive Magistrate is now re-eligible, he will be on good
behavior as far as will be necessary. If he behaves well he will be
continued; if otherwise, displaced, on a succeeding election.

Mr. MADISON [*38] If it be essential to the preservation of liberty that
the Legisl: Execut: & Judiciary powers be separate, it is essential to a
maintenance of the separation, that they should be independent of each
other. The Executive could not be independent of the Legislure, if
dependent on the pleasure of that branch for a reappointment. Why was it
determined that the Judges should not hold their places by such a
tenure? Because they might be tempted to cultivate the Legislature, by
an undue complaisance, and thus render the Legislature the virtual
expositor, as well [39] the maker of the laws. In like manner a
dependence of the Executive on the Legislature, would render it the
Executor as well as the maker of laws; & then according to the
observation of Montesquieu, tyrannical laws may be made that they may be
executed in a tyrannical manner. There was an analogy between the
Executive & Judiciary departments in several respects. The latter
executed the laws in certain cases as the former did in others. The
former expounded & applied them for certain purposes, as the latter did
for others. The difference between them seemed to consist chiefly in two
circumstances -- 1. [40] the collective interest & security were much
more in the power belonging to the Executive than to the Judiciary
department. 2. [40] in the administration of the former much greater
latitude is left to opinion and discretion than in the administration of
the latter. But if the 2d. consideration proves that it will be more
difficult to establish a rule sufficiently precise for trying the
Execut: than the Judges, & forms an objection to the same tenure of
office, both considerations prove that it might be more dangerous to
suffer a union between the Executive & Legisl: powers, than between the
Judiciary & Legislative powers. He conceived it to be absolutely
necessary to a well constituted Republic that the two first shd. be kept
distinct & independent of each other. Whether the plan proposed by the
motion was a proper one was another question, as it depended on the
practicability of instituting a tribunal for impeachmts. as certain & as
adequate in the one case as in the other. On the other hand, respect for
the mover entitled his proposition to a fair hearing & discussion, until
a less objectionable expedient should be applied for guarding agst. a
dangerous union of the Legislative & Executive departments.

Col. MASON. This motion was made some time ago, & negatived by a very
large majority. He trusted that it wd.. be again negatived. It Wd.. be
impossible to define the misbehaviour in such a manner as to subject it
to a proper trial; and perhaps still more impossible to compel so high
an offender holding his office by such a tenure to submit to a trial. He
considered an Executive during good behavior as a softer name only for
an Executive for life. And that the next would be an easy step to
hereditary Monarchy. If the motion should finally succeed, he might
himself live to see such a Revolution. If he did not it was probable his
children or grand children would. He trusted there were few men in that
House who wished for it. No state he was sure had so far revolted from
Republican principles as to have the least bias in its favor.

Mr. MADISON, was not apprehensive of being thought to favor any step
towards monarchy. The real object with him was to prevent its
introduction. Experience had proved a tendency in our governments to
throw all power into the Legislative vortex. The Executives of the
States are in general little more than Cyphers; the legislatures
omnipotent. If no effectual check be devised for restraining the
instability & encroachments of the latter, a revolution of some kind or
other would be inevitable. The preservation of Republican Govt.
therefore required some expedient for the purpose, but required
evidently at the same time that in devising it, the genuine principles
of that form should be kept in view.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS was as little a friend to monarchy as any gentleman. He
concurred in the opinion that the way to keep out monarchical Govt. was
to establish such a Repub. Govt. as Wd.. make the people happy and
prevent a desire of change.

Docr. Mc. CLURG was not so much afraid of the shadow of monarchy as to
be unwilling to approach it; nor so wedded to Republican Govt. as not to
be sensible of the tyrannies that had been & may be exercised under that
form. It was an essential object with him to make the Executive
independent of the Legislature; and the only mode left for effecting it,
after the vote destroying his ineligibility a second time, was to
appoint him during good behavior.

On the question for inserting "during good behavior" in place of 7 years
[with a re-eligibility] it passed in the negative.

Mas. no. Ct. no. N.J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. no. Va. ay. N.C. no. S.C.
no. Geo. no. [*42, 41]

On the motion for inserting "to strike out seven years" it passed in the
negative.

Mas. ay. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. no. Va. no. N. C. AY. S.
C. no. Geo. no. [*42, 46]

It was now unanimously agreed that the vote which had struck out the
words "to be ineligible a second time" should be reconsidered to-morrow.

Adjd.

___________

1. The word "its" is here inserted in the transcript.

2. The word "of" is crossed out in the transcript and "to" is written
above it.

3. The word "of" is omitted in the transcript.

4. The word and figure "line 4" are crossed out in the transcript.

5. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

6. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, Maryland, aye -- 2;
Massachusetts, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8."

7. The words "the sixth Resolution" are substituted in the transcript
for "Resolution 6."

8. The word "severally" is substituted in the transcript for "separately."

9. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

10. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina, aye -- 6; Connecticut,
Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 4."

11. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, aye
-- 8; South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 2."

12. The word "clause" is here inserted in the transcript.

13. The phrase "was then taken up" is here inserted in the transcript.

14. The word "will" is substituted in the transcript for "can."

15. The word "be" is omitted in the transcript.

16. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

17. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Virginia, North
Carolina, aye -- 3; Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware,
Maryland, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 7."

18. In the transcript this sentence reads as follows: "The ninth
Resolution being taken up, the first clause, 'That a National Executive
be instituted, to consist of a single person,' was agreed to, nem. con."

19. The words "The next clause" are here inserted in the transcript.

20. The words "being considered" are here inserted in the transcript.

21. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

22. The figure "1" is changed to "The first is" in the transcript.

23. The word "at" is substituted in the transcript for "in."

24. The transcript does not italicize the word "majority."

25. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

26. The word "a" is here inserted in the transcript.

27. In the transcript the word "on" is crossed out and "of" is written
above it.

28. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

29. The words "On the" are here inserted in the transcript.

30. The word "which" is crossed out and "it" is written above it in the
transcript.

31. In the transcript the vote reads: "Pennsylvania, aye -- 1;
Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia,
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 9."

32. In the transcript the vote reads: "Delaware, Maryland, aye -- 2;
Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8."

33. The word "Mr." is here inserted in the transcript.

34. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Georgia, aye -- 6; Delaware, Virginia,
North Carolina, South Carolina, no -- 4."

35. The words "The clause" are here inserted in the transcript.

36. The word "being" is here inserted in the transcript.

*37. The probable object of this motion was merely to enforce the
argument against the re-eligibility of the Executive Magistrate, by
holding out a tenure during good behaviour as the alternative for
keeping him independent of the Legislature.

*38. The view here taken of the subject was meant to aid in parrying the
animadversions likely to fall on the motion of Dr. McClurg, for whom
J.M. had a particular regard. The Doctr. though possessing talents of
the highest order, was modest & unaccustomed to exert them in public
debate.

39. The word "as" is here inserted in the transcript.

40. The figures "1" and "2" are changed to "first" and "secondly" in the
transcript.

41. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Virginia, aye -- 4; Massachusetts, Connecticut, Maryland,
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 6 [*42]"

*42. Transfer the above notes hither. [43]

[ [*42] This vote is not [44] be considered as any certain index of
opinion, as a number in the affirmative probably had it chiefly in view
to alarm those attached to a dependence of the Executive on the
Legislature, & thereby facilitate some final arrangement of a contrary
tendency. The avowed friends of an Executive, "during good behaviour"
were not more than three or four, nor is it certain they would finally
[45] have adhered to such a tenure. An independence of the three great
departments of each other, as far as possible, and the responsibility of
all to the will of the community seemed to be generally admitted as the
true basis of a well constructed government.]

43. Madison's direction concerning the footnotes is omitted in the
transcript.

44. The word "to" is here inserted in the transcript.

45. The word "finally" is omitted in the transcript.

[ [*42] There was no debate on this motion the apparent object of many
in the affirmative was to secure the re-eligibility by shortening the
term and of many in the negative to embarrass the plan of referring the
appointment & dependence of the Executive to the Legislature.]

46. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, North Carolina, aye--4; Connecticut, New Jersey, Maryland,
Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, no--6. [*42] "


