THURSDAY  JULY 5th.   IN CONVENTION

Mr. GERRY delivered in from the Committee appointed on Monday last the
following Report.

"The Committee to whom was referred the 8th. Resol. of the Report from
the Committee of the whole House, and so much of the 7th. as has not
been decided on, submit the following Report: That the subsequent
propositions be recommended to the Convention on condition that both
shall be generally adopted. 1. That in the 1st. branch of the
Legislature each of the States now in the Union shall be allowed 1
member for every 40,000 inhabitants of the description reported in the
7th. Resolution of the Come. of the whole House: that each State not
containing that number shall be allowed 1 member: that all bills for
raising or appropriating money, and for fixing the Salaries of the
officers of the Governt. of the U. States shall originate in the 1st.
branch of the Legislature, and shall not be altered or amended by the
2d. branch: and that no money shall be drawn from the public Treasury.
but in pursuance of appropriations to be orginated in the 1st. branch"
II. That in the 2d. branch each State shall have an equal vote." [*1]

Mr. GHORUM observed that as the report consisted of propositions
mutually conditional he wished to hear some explanations touching the
grounds on which the conditions were estimated.

Mr. GERRY. The Committee were of different opinions as well as the
Deputations from which the Come. were taken, and agreed to the Report
merely in order that some ground of accomodation might be proposed.
Those opposed to the equality of votes have only assented conditionally;
and if the other side do not generally agree will not be under any
obligation to support the Report.

Mr. WILSON thought the Committee had exceeded their powers.

Mr. MARTIN was for taking the question on the whole report.

Mr. WILSON was for a division of the question: otherwise it wd. be a
leap in the dark.

Mr. MADISON. could not regard the exclusive [3] privilege of originating
money bills as any concession on the side of the small States.
Experience proved that it had no effect. If seven States in the upper
branch wished a bill to be originated, they might surely find some
member from some of the same States in the lower branch who would
originate it. The restriction as to amendments was of as little
consequence. Amendments could be handed privately by the Senate to
members in the other house. Bills could be negatived that they might be
sent up in the desired shape. If the Senate should yield to the
obstinacy of the 1st. branch the use of that body as a check would be
lost. If the 1st. branch should yield to that of the Senate, the
privilege would be nugatory. Experience had also shewn both in G. B. and
the States having a similar regulation that it was a source of frequent
& obstinate altercations. These considerations had produced a rejection
of a like motion on a former occasion when judged by its own merits. It
could not therefore be deemed any concession on the present, and left in
force all the objections which had prevailed agst. allowing each State
an equal voice. He conceived that the Convention was reduced to the
alternative of either departing from justice in order to conciliate the
smaller States, and the minority of the people of the U. S. or of
displeasing these by justly gratifying the larger States and the
majority of the people. He could not himself hesitate as to the option
he ought to make. The Convention with justice & the majority of the
people on their side, had nothing to fear. With injustice and the
minority on their side they had every thing to fear. It was in vain to
purchase concord in the Convention on terms which would perpetuate
discord among their Constituents. The Convention ought to pursue a plan
which would bear the test of examination, which would be espoused &
supported by the enlightened and impartial part of America, & which they
could themselves vindicate and urge. It should be considered that altho'
at first many may judge of the system recommended, by their opinion of
the Convention, yet finally all will judge of the Convention by the
System. The merits of the System alone can finally & effectually obtain
the public suffrage. He was not apprehensive that the people of the
small States would obstinately refuse to accede to a Govt. founded on
just principles, and promising them substantial protection. He could not
suspect that Delaware would brave the consequences of seeking her
fortunes apart from the other States, rather than submit to such a Govt.
much less could he suspect that she would pursue the rash policy of
courting foreign support, which the warmth of one of her representatives
[Mr. Bedford] had suggested, or if she shd. that any foreign nation wd.
be so rash as to hearken to the overture. As little could he suspect
that the people of N. Jersey notwithstanding the decided tone of the
gentlemen from that State, would choose rather to stand on their own
legs, and bid defiance to events, than to acquiesce under an
establishment founded on principles the justice of which they could not
dispute, and absolutely necessary to redeem them from the exactions
levied on them by the commerce of the neighbouring States. A review of
other States would prove that there was as little reason to apprehend an
inflexible opposition elsewhere. Harmony in the Convention was no doubt
much to be desired. Satisfaction to all the States, in the first
instance still more so. But if the principal States comprehending a
majority of the people of the U. S. should concur in a just & judicious
plan, he had the firmest hopes, that all the other States would by
degrees accede to it.

Mr. BUTLER said he could not let down his idea of the people, of America
so far as to believe they would from mere respect to the Convention
adopt a plan evidently unjust. He did not consider the privilege
concerning money bills as of any consequence. He urged that the 2d.
branch ought to represent the States according to their property.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. thought the form as well as the matter of the Report
objectionable. It seemed in the first place to render amendments
impracticable. In the next place, it seemed to involve a pledge to agree
to the 2d. part if the 1st. shd. be agreed to. He conceived the whole
aspect of it to be wrong. He came here as a Representative of America;
he flattered himself he came here in some degree as a Representative of
the whole human race; for the whole human race will be affected by the
proceedings of this Convention. He wished gentlemen to extend their
views beyond the present moment of time; beyond the narrow limits of
place from which they derive their political origin. If he were to
believe some things which he had heard, he should suppose that we were
assembled to truck and bargain for our particular States. He can-not
descend to think that any gentlemen are really actuated by these views.
We must look forward to the effects of what we do. These alone ought to
guide us. Much has been said of the sentiments of the people. They were
unknown. They could not be known. All that we can infer is that if the
plan we recommend be reasonable & right; all who have reasonable minds
and sound intentions will embrace it, notwithstanding what had been said
by some gentlemen. Let us suppose that the larger States shall agree;
and that the smaller refuse: and let us trace the consequences. The
opponents of the system in the smaller States will no doubt make a
party, and a noise for a time, but the ties of interest, of kindred & of
common habits which connect them with the other States will be too
strong to be easily broken. In N. Jersey particularly he was sure a
great many would follow the sentiments of Pena. & N. York. This Country
must be united. If persuasion does not unite it, the sword will. He
begged that [4] this consideration might have its due weight. The scenes
of horror attending civil commotion can not be described, and the
conclusion of them will be worse than the term of their continuance. The
stronger party will then make traytors of the weaker; and the Gallows &
Halter will finish the work of the sword. How far foreign powers would
be ready to take part in the confusions he would not say. Threats that
they will be invited have it seems been thrown out. He drew the
melancholy picture of foreign intrusions as exhibited in the History of
Germany, & urged it as a standing lesson to other nations. He trusted
that the Gentlemen who may have hazarded such expressions, did not
entertain them till they reached their own lips. But returning to the
Report he could not think it in any respect calculated for the public
good. As the 2d. branch is now constituted, there will be constant
disputes & appeals to the States which will undermine the Genl.
Government & controul & annihilate the 1st. branch. Suppose that the
delegates from Massts. & Rho 1. in the Upper House disagree, and that
the former are outvoted. What Results? they will immediately declare
that their State will not abide by the decision, and make such
representations as will produce that effect. The same may happen as to
Virga. & other States. Of what avail then will be what is on paper.
State attachments, and State importance have been the bane of this
Country. We can not annihilate; but we may perhaps take out the teeth of
the serpents. He wished our ideas to be enlarged to the true interest of
man, instead of being circumscribed within the narrow compass of a
particular Spot. And after all how little can be the motive yielded by
selfishness for such a policy. Who can say whether he himself, much less
whether his children, will the next year be an inhabitant of this or
that State.

Mr. BEDFORD. He found that what he had said as to the small States being
taken by the hand, had been misunderstood; and he rose to explain. He
did not mean that the small States would court the aid & interposition
of foreign powers. He meant that they would not consider the federal
compact as dissolved untill it should be so by the Acts of the large
States. In this case The consequence of the breach of faith on their
part, and the readiness of the small States to fulfill their
engagements, would be that foreign Nations having demands on this
Country would find it their interest to take the small States by the
hand, in order to do themselves justice. This was what he meant. But no
man can foresee to what extremities the small States may be driven by
oppression. He observed also in apology that some allowance ought to be
made for the habits of his profession in which warmth was natural &
sometimes necessary. But is there not an apology in what was said by
[Mr. Govr. Morris] that the sword is to unite: by Mr. Ghorum that
Delaware must be annexed to Penna. and N. Jersey divided between Pena.
and N. York. To hear such language without emotion, would be to renounce
the feelings of a man and the duty of a Citizen -- As to the
propositions of the Committee, the lesser States have thought it
necessary to have a security somewhere. This has been thought necessary
for the Executive Magistrate of the proposed Govt. who has a sort of
negative on the laws; and is it not of more importance that the States
should be protected, than that the Executive branch of the Govt. shd. be
protected. In order to obtain this, the smaller States have conceded as
to the constitution of the first branch, and as to money bills. If they
be not gratified by correspondent concessions as to the 2d. branch is it
to be supposed they will ever accede to the plan; and what will be the
consequence if nothing should be done! The condition of the U. States
requires that something should be immediately done. It will be better
that a defective plan should be adopted, than that none should be
recommended. He saw no reason why defects might not be supplied by
meetings 10, 15, or 20 years hence.

Mr. ELSEWORTH said he had not attended the proceedings of the Committee,
but was ready to accede to the compromise they had reported. Some
compromise was necessary; and he saw none more convenient or reasonable.

Mr. WILLIAMSON hoped that the expressions of individuals would not be
taken for the sense of their colleagues, much less of their States which
was not & could not be known. He hoped also that the meaning of those
expressions would not be misconstrued or exaggerated. He did not
conceive that [Mr. Govr. Morris] meant that the sword ought to be drawn
agst. the smaller States. He only pointed out the probable consequences
of anarchy in the U. S. A similar exposition ought to be given of the
expressions [of Mr. Ghorum]. He was ready to hear the Report discussed;
but thought the propositions contained in it, the most objectionable of
any he had yet heard.

Mr. PATTERSON said that he had when the Report was agreed to in the
Come. reserved to himself the right of freely discussing it. He
acknowledged that the warmth complained of was improper; but he thought
the Sword & the Gallows as [5] little calculated to produce conviction.
He complained of the manner in which Mr. M -- & Mr. Govr. Morris had
treated the small States.

Mr. GERRY. Tho' he had assented to the Report in the Committee, he had
very material objections to it. We were however in a peculiar situation.
We were neither the same Nation nor different Nations. We ought not
therefore to pursue the one or the other of these ideas too closely. If
no compromise should take place what will be the consequence. A
secession he foresaw would take place; for some gentlemen seem decided
on it; two different plans will be proposed; and the result no man could
foresee. If we do not come to some agreement among ourselves some
foreign sword will probably do the work for us.

Mr. MASON. The Report was meant not as specific propositions to be
adopted; but merely as a general ground of accomodation. There must be
some accomodation on this point, or we shall make little further
progress in the work. Accomodation was the object of the House in the
appointment of the Committee; and of the Committee in the Report they
had made. And however liable the Report might be to objections, he
thought it preferable to an appeal to the world by the different sides,
as had been talked of by some Gentlemen. It could not be more
inconvenient to any gentleman to remain absent from his private affairs,
than it was for him: but he would bury his bones in this City rather
than expose his Country to the Consequences of a dissolution of the
Convention without any thing being done.

The 1st. proposition in the report for fixing the representation in the
1st. branch, one member for every 40,000 inhabitants, being taken up.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS objected to that scale of apportionment. He thought
property ought to be taken into the estimate as well as the number of
inhabitants. Life & liberty were generally said to be of more value,
than property. An accurate view of the matter would nevertheless prove
that property was the main object of Society. The savage State was more
favorable to liberty than the Civilized; and sufficiently so to life. It
was preferred by all men who had not acquired a taste for property; it
was only renounced for the sake of property which could only be secured
by the restraints of regular Government. These ideas might appear to
some new, but they were nevertheless just. If property then was the main
object of Govt. certainly it ought to be one measure of the influence
due to those who were to be affected by the Governmt. He looked forward
also to that range of New States which wd. soon be formed in the West.
He thought the rule of representation ought to be so fixed as to secure
to the Atlantic States a prevalence in the National Councils. The new
States will know less of the public interest than these, will have an
interest in many respects different, in particular will be little
scrupulous of involving the Community in wars the burdens & operations
of which would fall chiefly on the maritime States. Provision ought
therefore to be made to prevent the maritime States from being hereafter
outvoted by them. He thought this might be easily done by irrevocably
fixing the number of representatives which the Atlantic States should
respectively have, and the number which each new State will have. This
wd. not be unjust, as the Western settlers wd. previously know the
conditions on which they were to possess their lands. It would be
politic as it would recommend the plan to the present as well as future
interest of the States which must decide the fate of it.

Mr. RUTLIDGE. The gentleman last up had spoken some of his sentiments
precisely. Property was certainly the principal object of Society. If
numbers should be made the rule of representation, the Atlantic States
will [6] be subjected to the Western. He moved that the first
proposition in the report be postponed in order to take up the following
viz "that the suffrages of the several States be regulated and
proportioned according to the sums to be paid towards the general
revenue by the inhabitants of each State respectively. that an
apportionment of suffrages, according to the ratio aforesaid shall be
made and regulated at the end of _____ years from the 1st. meeting of
the Legislature of the U. S. and at the end of every _____ years but
that for the present, and until the period above mentioned, the
suffrages shall be for N. Hampshire _____ [7] Massachts. _____ &c.- 

Col. MASON said the case of new States was not unnoticed in the
Committee; but it was thought and he was himself decidedly of opinion
that if they made a part of the Union, they ought to be subject to no
unfavorable discriminations. Obvious considerations required it.

Mr. RANDOLPH concurred with Col. [8] Mason.

On [9] Question on Mr. Rutlidges motion.

Masts. no. Cont. no. N. Y. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Maryd. no. Va.
no. N. C. no. S. C. ay. Geo. not on floor. [10]

Adjd

___________

*1. This report was founded on a motion in the Committee made by Dr
Franklin. It was barely acquiesced in by the members from the State
opposed to an equality of votes in the 2d branch and was evidently
considered by the members on the other side, as a gaining of their
point. A motion was made by Mr Sherman [he [2] acted in place of Mr
Elseworth who was kept away by indisposition.] In the Committee to the
following effect "that each State should have an equal vote in the 2d
branch; provided that no decision therein should prevail unless the
majority of States concurring should also comprize a majority of the
inhabitants of the U. States." This motion was not much deliberated on
nor approved in the Committee. A similar proviso had been proposed in
the debates on the articles of Confederation in 1777, to the articles
giving certain powers to "nine States." See Journals of Congs for 1777,
p. 462.

2. The word "who" is substituted in the transcript for "he."

3. The word "exclusive" is omitted in the transcript.

4. The word "that" is omitted in the transcript.

5. The word "as" is crossed out in the transcript.

6. The word "would" is substituted in the transcript for "will."

7. The word "for" is here inserted in the transcript.

8. The word "Mr." is substituted in the transcript for "Col."

9. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

10. In the transcript the vote reads: "South Carolina, aye -- 1;
Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, no -- 9; Georgia not on
the floor."


