TUESDAY  AUG. 14.   IN CONVENTION

Article VI. Sect. 9. [1, 2] taken up.

Mr. PINKNEY argued that the making the members ineligible to offices was
degrading to them, and the more improper as their election into the
Legislature implied that they had the confidence of the people; that it
was inconvenient, because the Senate might be supposed to contain the
fittest men. He hoped to see that body become a School of public
Ministers, a nursery of Statesmen: that it was impolitic, because the
Legislature would cease to be a magnet to the first talents and
abilities. He moved to postpone the section in order to take up the
following proposition viz -- "the members of each House shall be
incapable of holding any office under the U.S. for which they or any of
[3] others for their benefit receive any salary, fees, or emoluments of
any kind -- and the acceptance of such office shall vacate their seats
respectively"

Genl. MIFFLIN 2ded. the motion.

Col. MASON ironically proposed to strike out the whole section, as a
more effectual expedient for encouraging that exotic corruption which
might not otherwise thrive so well in the American Soil -- for
compleating that Aristocracy which was probably in the contemplation of
some among us, and for inviting into the Legislative Service, those
generous & benevolent characters who will do justice to each other's
merit, by carving out offices & rewards for it. In the present state of
American morals & manners, few friends it may be thought will be lost to
the plan, by the opportunity of giving premiums to a mercenary &
depraved ambition.

Mr. MERCER. It is a first principle in political science, that wherever
the rights of property are secured, an aristocracy will grow out of it.
Elective Governments also necessarily become aristocratic, because the
rulers being few can & will draw emoluments for themselves from the
many. The Governments of America will become aristocracies. They are so
already. The public measures are calculated for the benefit of the
Governors, not of the people. The people are dissatisfied & complain.
They change their rulers, and the public measures are changed, but it is
only a change of one scheme of emolument to the rulers, for another. The
people gain nothing by it, but an addition of instability & uncertainty
to their other evils. -- Governmts. can only be maintained by force or
influence. The Executive has not force, deprive him of influence [4] by
rendering the members of the Legislature ineligible to Executive
offices, and he becomes a mere phantom of authority. The aristocratic
part will not even let him in for a share of the plunder. The
Legislature must & will be composed of wealth & abilities, and the
people will be governed by a Junto. The Executive ought to have a
Council, being members of both Houses. Without such an influence, the
war will be between the aristocracy & the people. He wished it to be
between the Aristocracy & the Executive. Nothing else can protect the
people agst. those speculating Legislatures which are now plundering
them throughout the U. States.

Mr. GERRY read a resolution of the Legislature of Massts. passed before
the Act of Congs. recommending the Convention, in which her deputies
were instructed not to depart from the rotation established in the 5th.
art: of [5] Confederation, nor to agree in any case to give to the
members of Congs. a capacity to hold offices under the Government. This
he said was repealed in consequence of the Act of Congs. with which the
State thought it proper to comply in an unqualified manner. The Sense of
the State however was still the same. He could not think with Mr.
Pinkney that the disqualification was degrading. Confidence is the road
to tyranny. As to Ministers & Ambassadors few of them were necessary. It
is the opinion of a great many that they ought to be discontinued, on
our part; that none may be sent among us, & that source of influence be
[6] shut up. If the Senate were to appoint Ambassadors as seemed to be
intended, they will multiply embassies for their own sakes. He was not
so fond of those productions as to wish to establish nurseries for them.
If they are once appointed, the House of Reps. will be obliged to
provide salaries for them, whether they approve of the measures or not.
If men will not serve in the Legislature without a prospect of such
offices, our situation is deplorable indeed. If our best Citizens are
actuated by such mercenary views, we had better chuse a single despot at
once. It will be more easy to satisfy the rapacity of one than of many.
According to the idea of one Gentlemen [Mr. Mercer] our Government it
seems is to be a Govt. of plunder. In that case it certainly would be
prudent to have but one rather than many to be employed in it. We cannot
be too circumspect in the formation of this System. It will be examined
on all sides and with a very suspicious eye. The People who have been so
lately in arms agst. G. B. for their liberties, will not easily give
them up. He lamented the evils existing at present under our
Governments, but imputed them to the faults of those in office, not to
the people. The misdeeds of the former will produce a critical attention
to the opportunities afforded by the new system to like or greater
abuses. As it now stands it is as compleat an aristocracy as ever was
framed If great powers should be given to the Senate we shall be
governed in reality by a Junto as has been apprehended. He remarked that
it would be very differently constituted from Congs -- 1. [7] there will
be but 2 deputies from each State, in Congs. there may be 7. and are
generally 5. -- 2. [8] they are chosen for six years, those of Congs.
annually. 3. [9] they are not subject to recall; those of Congs. are. 4.
In Congs. 9 States [10] are necessary for all great purposes -- here 8
persons will suffice. Is it to be presumed that the people will ever
agree to such a system? He moved to render the members of the H. of
Reps. as well as of the Senate ineligible not only during, but for one
year after the expiration of their terms. -- If it should be thought
that this will injure the Legislature by keeping out of it men of
abilities who are willing to serve in other offices it may be required
as a qualification for other offices, that the Candidate shall have
served a certain time in the Legislature.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. Exclude the officers of the army & navy, and you form
a band having a different interest from & opposed to the civil power:
you stimulate them to despise & reproach those "talking Lords who dare
not face the foe." Let this spirit be roused at the end of a war, before
your troops shall have laid down their arms, and though the Civil
authority "be intrenched in parchment to the teeth" they will cut their
way to it. He was agst. rendering the members of the Legislature
ineligible to offices. He was for rendering them eligible agn. after
having vacated their Seats by accepting office. Why should we not avail
ourselves of their services if the people chuse to give them their
confidence. There can be little danger of corruption either among the
people or the Legislatures who are to be the Electors. If they say, we
see their merits, we honor the men, we chuse to renew our confidence in
them, have they not a right to give them a preference; and can they be
properly abridged of it. Mr. WILLIAMSON; introduced his opposition to
the motion by referring to the question concerning "money bills." That
clause he said was dead. Its ghost he was afraid would notwithstanding
haunt us. It had been a matter of conscience with him, to insist upon
[11] it as long as there was hope of retaining it. He had swallowed the
vote of rejection, with reluctance. He could not digest it. All that was
said on the other side was that the restriction was not convenient. We
have now got a House of Lords which is to originate money-bills. -- To
avoid another inconveniency, [12] we are to have a whole Legislature at
liberty to cut out offices for one another. He thought a self-denying
ordinance for ourselves would be more proper. Bad as the Constitution
has been made by expunging the restriction on the Senate concerning
money bills he did not wish to make it worse by expunging the present
Section. He had scarcely seen a single corrupt measure in the
Legislature of N. Carolina, which could not be traced up to office
hunting.

Mr. SHERMAN. The Constitution shd. lay as few temptations as possible in
the way of those in power. Men of abilities will increase as the Country
grows more populous and, and [13] the means of education are more
diffused.

Mr. PINKNEY. No State has rendered the members of the Legislature
ineligible to offices. In S. Carolina the Judges are eligible into the
Legislature. It can not be supposed then that the motion will be
offensive to the people. If the State Constitutions should be revised he
believed restrictions of this sort wd. be rather diminished than
multiplied.

Mr. WILSON could not approve of the Section as it stood, and could not
give up his judgment to any supposed objections that might arise among
the people. He considered himself as acting & responsible for the
welfare of millions not immediately represented in this House. He had
also asked himself the serious question what he should say to his
constituents in case they should call upon him to tell them why he
sacrified his own Judgment in a case where they authorised him to
exercise it? Were he to own to them that he sacrificed it in order to
flatter their prejudices, he should dread the retort: did you suppose
the people of Penna. had not good sense enough to receive a good
Government? Under this impression he should certainly follow his own
Judgment which disapproved of the section. He would remark in addition
to the objections urged agst. it, that as one branch of the Legislature
was to be appointed by the Legislatures of the States, the other by the
people of the States, as both are to be paid by the States, and to be
appointable to State offices, nothing seemed to be wanting to prostrate
the Natl. Legislature, but to render its members ineligible to Natl.
offices, & by that means take away its power of attracting those talents
which were necessary to give weight to the Governt. and to render it
useful to the people. He was far from thinking the ambition which
aspired to Offices of dignity and trust, an ignoble or culpable one. He
was sure it was not politic to regard it in that light, or to withold
from it the prospect of those rewards, which might engage it in the
career of public service. He observed that the State of Penna. which had
gone as far as any State into the policy of fettering power, had not
rendered the members of the Legislature ineligible to offices of Govt.

Mr. ELSWORTH did not think the mere postponement of the reward would be
any material discouragement of merit. Ambitious minds will serve 2 years
or 7 years in the Legislature for the sake of qualifying themselves for
other offices. This he thought a sufficient security for obtaining the
services of the ablest men in the Legislature, although whilst members
they should be ineligible to Public offices. Besides, merit will be most
encouraged, when most impartially rewarded. If rewards are to circulate
only within the Legislature, merit out of it will be discouraged. 

Mr. MERCER was extremely anxious on this point. What led to the
appointment of this Convention? The corruption & mutability of the
Legislative Councils of the States. If the plan does not remedy these,
it will not recommend itself; and we shall not be able in our private
capacities to support & enforce it: nor will the best part of our
Citizens exert themselves for the purpose. -- It is a great mistake to
suppose that the paper we are to propose will govern the U. States? It
is The men whom it will bring into the Governt. and interest in
maintaining it that is [14] to govern them. The paper will only mark out
the mode & the form. Men are the substance and must do the business. All
Govt. must be by force or influence. It is not the King of France -- but
200,000 janisaries of power that govern that Kingdom. There will be no
such force here; influence then must be substituted; and he would ask
whether this could be done, if the members of the Legislature should be
ineligible to offices of State; whether such a disqualification would
not determine all the most influencial men to stay at home, and & prefer
appointments within their respective States.

Mr. WILSON was by no means satisfied with the answer given by Mr.
Elsewoth to the argument as to the discouragement of merit. The members
must either go a second time into the Legislature, and disqualify
themselves -- or say to their Constituents, we served you before only
from the mercenary view of qualifying ourselves for offices, and haveg
answered this purpose we do not chuse to be again elected.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS put the case of a war, and the Citizen the [15] most
capable of conducting it, happening to be a member of the Legislature.
What might have been the consequence of such a regulation at the
commencement, or even in the Course of the late contest for our
liberties?

On [16] question for postponing in order to take up Mr. Pinkneys motion,
it was lost.

N. H. ay. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. divd. [17]

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved to insert, after "office," except offices in the
army or navy: but in that case their offices shall be vacated.

Mr. BROOM 2ds. him.

Mr. RANDOLPH had been & should continue uniformly opposed to the
striking out of the clause; as opening a door for influence &
corruption. No arguments had made any impression on him, but those which
related to the case of war, and a co-existing incapacity of the fittest
commanders to be employed. He admitted great weight in these, and would
agree to the exception proposed by Mr. Govr. Morris.

Mr. BUTLER & Mr. PINKNEY urged a general postponemt. of 9 Sect. Art. VI.
till it should be seen what powers would be vested in the Senate, when
it would be more easy to judge of the expediency of allowing the
officers of State to be chosen out of that body. -- a general
postponement was agreed to nem. con.

Art: VI. sect. 10. [18, 19] taken up -- "that members be paid by their
respective States."

Mr. ELSEWORTH said that in reflecting on this subject he had been
satisfied that too much dependence on the States would be produced by
this mode of payment. He moved to strike [20] out and insert "that they
should" be paid out of the Treasury of the U.S. an allowance not
exceeding (blank) dollars per day or the present value thereof.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS, remarked that if the members were to be paid by the
States it would throw an unequal burden on the distant States, which
would be unjust as the Legislature was to be a national Assembly. He
moved that the payment be out of the Natl. Treasury; leaving the quantum
to the discretion of the Natl. Legislature. There could be no reason to
fear that they would overpay themselves.

Mr. BUTLER contended for payment by the States; particularly in the case
of the Senate, who will be so long out of their respective States, that
they will lose sight of their Constituents unless dependent on them for
their support.

Mr. LANGDON was agst. payment by the States. There would be some
difficulty in fixing the sum; but it would be unjust to oblige the
distant States to bear the expence of their members in travelling to and
from the Seat of Govt.

Mr. MADISON. If the H. of Reps. is to be chosen biennially -- and the
Senate to be constantly dependent on the Legislatures which are chosen
annually, he could not see any chance for that stability in the Genl.
Govt. the want of which was a principal evil in the State Govts. His
fear was that the organization of the Govt. supposing the Senate to be
really independt. for six years, would not effect our purpose. It was
nothing more than a combination of the peculiarities of two of the State
Govts. which separately had been found insufficient. The Senate was
formed on the model of that of Maryld. The Revisionary check, on that of
N. York. What the effect of a union of these provisions might be, could
not be foreseen. The enlargement of the sphere of the Government was
indeed a circumstance which he thought would be favorable as he had on
several occasions undertaken to shew. He was however for fixing at least
two extremes not to be exceeded by the Natl. Legislre. in the payment of
themselves.

Mr. GERRY. There are difficulties on both sides. The observation of Mr.
Butler has weight in it. On the other side, the State Legislatures may
turn out the Senators by reducing their salaries. Such things have been
practised.

Col. MASON. It has not yet been noticed that the clause as it now stands
makes the House of Represents. also dependent on the State Legislatures;
so that both houses will be made the instruments of the politics of the
States whatever they may be.

Mr. BROOM could see no danger in trusting the Genl. Legislature with the
payment of themselves. The State Legislatures had this power, and no
complaint had been made of it.

Mr. SHERMAN was not afraid that the Legislature would make their own
wages too high; but too low, so that men ever so fit could not serve
unless they were at the same time rich. He thought the best plan would
be to fix a moderate allowance to be paid out of the Natl. Treasy. and
let the States make such additions as they might judge fit. He moved
that 5 dollars per day be the sum, any further emoluments to be added by
the States.

Mr. CARROL had been much surprised at seeing this clause in the Report.
The dependence of both Houses on the State Legislatures is compleat;
especially as the members of the former are eligible to State offices.
The States can now say: if you do not comply with our wishes, we will
starve you: if you do we will reward you. The new Govt. in this form was
nothing more than a second edition of Congress in two volumes, instead
of one, and perhaps with very few amendments -- 

Mr. DICKENSON took it for granted that all were convinced of the
necessity of making the Genl. Govt. independent of the prejudices,
passions, and improper views of the State Legislatures. The contrary of
This was effected by the section as it stands. On the other hand there
were objections agst. taking a permanent standard as wheat which had
been suggested on a former occasion, as well as against leaving the
matter to the pleasure of the Natl. Legislature. He proposed that an Act
should be passed every 12 years by the Natl. Legislre. settling the
quantum of their wages. If the Genl. Govt. should be left dependent on
the State Legislatures, it would be happy for us if we had never met in
this Room.

Mr. ELSEWORTH was not unwilling himself to trust the Legislature with
authority to regulate their own wages, but well knew that an unlimited
discretion for that purpose would produce strong, tho' perhaps not
insuperable objections. He thought changes in the value of money,
provided for by his motion in the words, "or the present value thereof."

Mr. L. MARTIN. As the Senate is to represent the States, the members of
it ought to be paid by the States.

Mr. CARROL. The Senate was to represent & manage the affairs of the
whole, and not to be the advocates of State interests. They ought then
not to be dependent on nor paid by the States.

On the question for paying the Members of the Legislature out of the
Natl. Treasury,

N. H. ay. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay. N.
C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. ay. [21]

Mr. ELSEWTH moved that the pay be fixed at 5 dollrs. or the present
value thereof per day during their attendance & for every thirty miles
in travelling to & from Congress.

Mr. STRONG preferred 4 dollars, leaving the Sts. at liberty to make
additions.

On [22] question for fixing the pay at 5 dollars.

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. ay. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [23]

Mr. DICKENSON proposed that the wages of the members of both houses Sd.
be required to be the same.

Mr. BROOME seconded him.

Mr. GHORUM. this would be unreasonable. The Senate will be detained
longer from home, will be obliged to remove their families, and in time
of war perhaps to sit constantly. Their allowance should certainly be
higher. The members of the Senates in the States are allowed more, than
those of the other house. Mr. DICKENSON withdrew his motion

It was moved & agreed to amend the Section by adding -- "to be
ascertained by law."

The Section [Art VI. Sec. 10] as amended, agreed to nem. con.

Adjd.

___________

1. See ante.

2. The word "was" is here inserted in the transcript.

3. The word "of" is omitted in the trancript.

4. The transcript italicizes the word "influence."

5. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

6. The word "be" is omitted in the transcript.

7. The figure "1" is changed to "In the first place" in the transcript.

8. The figure "2" is changed to "In the second place" in the transcript.

9. The figure "3" is changed to "In the third place" in the transcript.

10. The phrase "And finally, in Congress nine States" is substituted in
the transcript for "4. In Congs. 9 States."

11. The word "on" is substituted in the transcript for "upon."

12. The word "inconveniency" is changed to " nconvenience" in the
transcript.

13. The word "as" is substituted in the transcript for "and."

14. The word "are" is substituted in the transcript for "is."

15. The word "the" is omitted in the transcript.

16. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

17. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, aye -- 5; Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
Jersey, North Carolina, South Carolina, no -- 5; Georgia, divided."

18. See ante.

19. The words "was then" are here inserted in the transcript.

20. The word "it" is here inserted in the transcript.

21. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Connecticut, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina,
Georgia, aye -- 9; Massachusetts, South Carolina, no -- 2."

22. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

23. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, Virginia, aye -- 2;
New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware,
Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 9."


