THURSDAY  JUNE 7th, 1787 [1] --   IN COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE

Mr. PINKNEY according to notice moved to reconsider the clause
respecting the negative on State laws, which was agreed to and tomorrow
for fixed [2] the purpose.

The Clause providing for ye. appointment of the 2d. branch of the
national Legislature, having lain blank since the last vote on the mode
of electing it, to wit, by the 1st. branch, Mr. DICKENSON now moved
"that the members of the 2d. branch ought to be chosen by the individual
Legislatures."

Mr. SHERMAN seconded the motion; observing that the particular States
would thus become interested in supporting the national Governmt. and
that a due harmony between the two Governments would be maintained. He
admitted that the two ought to have separate and distinct jurisdictions,
but that they ought to have a mutual interest in supporting each other.

Mr. PINKNEY. If the small States should be allowed one Senator only, the
number will be too great, there will be 80 at least.

Mr. DICKENSON had two reasons for his motion. 1. [3] because the sense
of the States would be better collected through their Governments; than
immediately from the people at large; 2. [3] because he wished the
Senate to consist of the most distinguished characters, distinguished
for their rank in life and their weight of property, and bearing as
strong a likeness to the British House of Lords as possible; and he
thought such characters more likely to be selected by the State
Legislatures, than in any other mode. The greatness of the number was no
objection with him. He hoped there would be 80 and twice 80. of them. If
their number should be small, the popular branch could not be balanced
by them. The legislature of a numerous people ought to be a numerous
body.

Mr. WILLIAMSON, preferred a small number of Senators, but wished that
each State should have at least one. He suggested 25 as a convenient
number. The different modes of representation in the different branches,
will serve as a mutual check.

Mr. BUTLER was anxious to know the ratio of representation before he
gave any opinion.

Mr. WILSON. If we are to establish a national Government, that
Government ought to flow from the people at large. If one branch of it
should be chosen by the Legislatures, and the other by the people, the
two branches will rest on different foundations, and dissensions will
naturally arise between them. He wished the Senate to be elected by the
people as well as the other branch, and the people might be divided into
proper districts for the purpose & [4] moved to postpone the motion of
Mr. Dickenson, in order to take up one of that import.

Mr. MORRIS 2ded. him.

Mr. READ proposed "that the Senate should be appointed by the Executive
Magistrate out of a proper number of persons to be nominated by the
individual legislatures." He said he thought it his duty, to speak his
mind frankly. Gentlemen he hoped would not be alarmed at the idea.
Nothing short of this approach towards a proper model of Government
would answer the purpose, and he thought it best to come directly to the
point at once. -- His proposition was not seconded nor supported.

Mr. MADISON, if the motion [of Mr. Dickenson] should be agreed to, we
must either depart from the doctrine of proportional representation; or
admit into the Senate a very large number of members. The first is
inadmissible, being evidently unjust. The second is inexpedient. The use
of the Senate is to consist in its proceeding with more coolness, with
more system, & with more wisdom, than the popular branch. Enlarge their
number and you communicate to them the vices which they are meant to
correct. He differed from Mr. D. who thought that the additional number
would give additional weight to the body. On the contrary it appeared to
him that their weight would be in an inverse ratio to their number. [5]
The example of the Roman Tribunes was applicable. They lost their
influence and power, in proportion as their number was augmented. The
reason seemed to be obvious: They were appointed to take care of the
popular interests & pretensions at Rome, because the people by reason of
their numbers could not act in concert; [6] were liable to fall into
factions among themselves, and to become a prey to their aristocratic
adversaries. The more the representatives of the people therefore were
multiplied, the more they partook of the infirmities of their
constituents, the more liable they became to be divided among themselves
either from their own indiscretions or the artifices of the opposite
faction, and of course the less capable of fulfilling their trust. When
the weight of a set of men depends merely on their personal characters;
the greater the number the greater the weight. When it depends on the
degree of political authority lodged in them the smaller the number the
greater the weight. These considerations might perhaps be combined in
the intended Senate; but the latter was the material one.

Mr. GERRY. 4 modes of appointing the Senate have been mentioned. 1. [7]
by the 1st. branch of the National Legislature. This would create a
dependence contrary to the end proposed. 2. [7] by the National
Executive. This is a stride towards monarchy that few will think of. 3.
[7] by the people. The people have two great interests, the landed
interest, and the commercial including the stockholders. To draw both
branches from the people will leave no security to the latter interest;
the people being chiefly composed of the landed interest, and
erroneously supposing, that the other interests are adverse to it. 4 [7]
by the Individual Legislatures. The elections being carried thro' this
refinement, will be most likely to provide some check in favor of the
commercial interest agst. the landed; without which oppression will take
place, and no free Govt. can last long where that is the case. He was
therefore in favor of this last.

Mr. DICKENSON. [*8] The preservation of the States in a certain degree
of agency is indispensable. It will produce that collision between the
different authorities which should be wished for in order to check each
other. To attempt to abolish the States altogether, would degrade the
Councils of our Country, would be impracticable, would be ruinous. He
compared the proposed National System to the Solar System, in which the
States were the planets, and ought to be left to move freely in their
proper orbits. The Gentleman from Pa. [Mr. Wilson] wished he said to
extinguish these planets. If the State Governments were excluded from
all agency in the national one, and all power drawn from the people at
large, the consequence would be that the national Govt. would move in
the same direction as the State Govts. now do, and would run into all
the same mischiefs. The reform would only unite the 13 small streams
into one great current pursuing the same course without any opposition
whatever. He adhered to the opinion that the Senate ought to be composed
of a large number, and that their influence from family weight & other
causes would be increased thereby. He did not admit that the Tribunes
lost their weight in proportion as their no. was augmented and gave a
historical sketch of this institution. If the reasoning of [Mr. Madison]
was good it would prove that the number of the Senate ought to be
reduced below ten, the highest no. of the Tribunitial corps.

Mr. WILSON. The subject it must be owned is surrounded with doubts and
difficulties. But we must surmount them. The British Governmt. cannot be
our model. We have no materials for a similar one. Our manners, our
laws, the abolition of entails and of primogeniture, the whole genius of
the people, are opposed to it. He did not see the danger of the States
being devoured by the Nationl. Govt. On the contrary, he wished to keep
them from devouring the national Govt. He was not however for
extinguishing these planets as was supposed by Mr. D. -- neither did he
on the other hand, believe that they would warm or enlighten the Sun.
Within their proper orbits they must still be suffered to act for
subordinate purposes for which their existence is made essential by the
great extent of our Country. He could not comprehend in what manner the
landed interest wd. be rendered less predominant in the Senate, by an
election through the medium of the Legislatures then by the people
themselves. If the Legislatures, as was now complained, sacrificed the
commercial to the landed interest, what reason was there to expect such
a choice from them as would defeat their own views. He was for an
election by the people in large districts which wd. be most likely to
obtain men of intelligence & uprightness; subdividing the districts only
for the accomodation of voters.

Mr. MADISON could as little comprehend in what manner family weight, as
desired by Mr. D. would be more certainly conveyed into the Senate
through elections by the State Legislatures, than in some other modes.
The true question was in what mode the best choice wd. be made? If an
election by the people, or thro' any other channel than the State
Legislatures promised as uncorrupt & impartial a preference of merit,
there could surely be no necessity for an appointment by those
Legislatures. Nor was it apparent that a more useful check would be
derived thro' that channel than from the people thro' some other. The
great evils complained of were that the State Legislatures run into
schemes of paper money &c. whenever solicited by the people, & sometimes
without even the sanction of the people. Their influence then, instead
of checking a like propensity in the National Legislature, may be
expected to promote it. Nothing can be more contradictory than to say
that the Natl. Legislature witht. a proper check, will follow the
example of the State Legislatures, & in the same breath, that the State
Legislatures are the only proper check.

Mr. SHERMAN opposed elections by the people in districts, as not likely
to produce such fit men as elections by the State Legislatures.

Mr. GERRY insisted that the commercial & monied interest wd. be more
secure in the hands of the State Legislatures, than of the people at
large. The former have more sense of character, and will be restrained
by that from injustice. The people are for paper money when the
Legislatures are agst. it. In Massts. the County Conventions had
declared a wish for a depreciating paper that wd. sink itself. Besides,
in some States there are two Branches in the Legislature, one of which
is somewhat aristocratic. There wd. therefore be so far a better chance
of refinement in the choice. There seemed, he thought to be three
powerful objections agst. elections by districts. 1. [9] it is
impracticable; the people cannot be brought to one place for the
purpose; and whether brought to the same place or not, numberless frauds
wd. be unavoidable. 2. [9] small States forming part of the same
district with a large one, or [10] large part of a large one, wd. have
no chance of gaining an appointment for its citizens of merit. 3 [9] a
new source of discord wd. be opened between different parts of the same
district.

Mr. PINKNEY thought the 2d. branch ought to be permanent & independent,
& that the members of it wd. be rendered more so by receiving their
appointment [11] from the State Legislatures. This mode wd. avoid the
rivalships & discontents incident to the election by districts. He was
for dividing the States into three classes according to their respective
sizes, & for allowing to the 1st. class three members -- to the 2d. two,
& to the 3d. one. On the question for postponing Mr. Dickinson's motion
referring the appointment of the Senate to the State Legislatures, in
order to consider Mr. Wilson's for referring it to the people.

Mass. no. Cont no. N. Y. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay Del. no. Md. no. Va. no.
N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [12]

Col. MASON. whatever power may be necessary for the Natl. Govt. a
certain portion must necessarily be left in [13] the States. It is
impossible for one power to pervade the extreme parts of the U.S. so as
to carry equal justice to them. The State Legislatures also ought to
have some means of defending themselves agst. encroachments of the Natl.
Govt. In every other department we have studiously endeavored to provide
for its self-defence. Shall we leave the States alone unprovided with
the means for this purpose? And what better means can we provide than
the giving them some share in, or rather to make them a constituent part
of, the Natl. Establishment. There is danger on both sides no doubt; but
we have only seen the evils arising on the side of the State Govts.
Those on the other side remain to be displayed. The example of Congs.
does not apply. Congs. had no power to carry their acts into execution
as the Natl. Govt. will have.

On Mr. DICKINSON's motion for an appointment of the Senate by the State
-- Legislatures.

Mass. ay. Ct. ay. N. Y. ay. Pa. ay Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay N. C. ay. S.
C. ay. Geo. ay. [14]

Mr. GERRY gave notice that he wd. tomorrow move for a reconsideration of
the mode of appointing the Natl. Executive in order to substitute an
appointmt. by the State Executives.

The Committee rose & The House adjd.

___________

1. The year "1787" is omitted in the transcript.

2. The words "for fixed" are corrected in the transcript to "fixed for."

3. The figures "1" and "2" are changed to "First" and "secondly" in the
transcript.

4. The word "he" is here inserted in the transcript.

5. The transcript uses the word "number" is the plural.

6. The word "and" is here inserted in the transcript.

7. The figures "1," "2," "3" and "4" are changed to "First," "Secondly,"
etc., in the transcript.

*8. It will throw light on this discussion to remark that an election by
the State Legislatures involved a surrender of the principle insisted on
by the large State & dreaded by the small ones, namely that of a
proportional representation is the Senate. Such a rule Wd. make the body
too numerous, as the smallest State must elect one member at least.

9. The figures "1," "2" and "3" are changed to "First," "Secondly," and
"Thirdly" in the transcript.

10. The word "a" is here inserted in the transcript.

11. The word "appointment" is used in the plural in the transcript.

12. In the transcript the vote reads: "Pennsylvania, aye -- 1;
Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 10."

13. The word "with" is substituted in the transcript for "in."

14. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
York, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 10."


