SATURDAY  JULY 7.   IN CONVENTION

[1] "Shall the clause allowing each State one vote in the 2d. branch,
stand as part of the Report"? being taken up

Mr. GERRY. This is the critical question. He had rather agree to it than
have no accomodation. A Governt. short of a proper national plan, if
generally acceptable, would be preferable to a proper one which if it
could be carried at all, would operate on discontented States. He
thought it would be best to suspend the [2] question till the Comme.
yesterday appointed, [3] should make report.

Mr. SHERMAN Supposed that it was the wish of every one that some Genl.
Govt. should be established. An equal vote in the 2d. branch would, he
thought, be most likely to give it the necessary vigor. The small States
have more vigor in their Govts. than the large ones, the more influence
therefore the large ones have, the weaker will be the Govt. In the large
States it will be most difficult to collect the real & fair sense of the
people. Fallacy & undue influence will be practiced with most success:
and improper men will most easily get into office. If they vote by
States in the 2d. branch, and each State has an equal vote, there must
be always a majority of States as well as a majority of the people on
the side of public measures, & the Govt. will have decision and
efficacy. If this be not the case in the 2d. branch there may be a
majority of the [4] States agst. public measures, and the difficulty of
compelling them to abide by the public determination, will render the
Government feebler than it has ever yet been.

Mr. WILSON was not deficient in a conciliating temper, but firmness was
sometimes a duty of higher obligation. Conciliation was also misapplied
in this instance. It was pursued here rather among the Representatives,
than among the Constituents; and it wd. be of little consequence, if not
established among the latter; and there could be little hope of its
being established among them if the foundation should not be laid in
justice and right.

On [5] Question shall the words stand as part of the Report?

Massts. divd. Cont. ay. N. Y. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va.
no. N. C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. divd. [6] [Note. Several votes were given
here in the affirmative or were divd. because another final question was
to be taken on the whole report.]

Mr. GERRY thought it would be proper to proceed to enumerate & define
the powers to be vested in the Genl. Govt. before a question on the
report should be taken, as to the rule of representation in the 2d.
branch.

Mr. MADISON, observed that it wd. be impossible to say what powers could
be safely & properly vested in the Govt. before it was known, in what
manner the States were to be represented in it. He was apprehensive that
if a just representation were not the basis of the Govt. it would
happen, as it did when the Articles of Confederation were depending,
that every effectual prerogative would be withdrawn or withheld, and the
New Govt. wd. be rendered as impotent and as shortlived as the old.

Mr. PATTERSON would not decide whether the privilege concerning money
bills were a valuable consideration or not: But he considered the mode &
rule of representation in the 1st. branch as fully so. and that after
the establishment of that point, the small States would never be able to
defend themselves without an equality of votes in the 2d. branch. There
was no other ground of accomodation. His resolution was fixt. He would
meet the large States on that Ground and no other. For himself he should
vote agst. the Report, because it yielded too much.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. He had no resolution unalterably fixed except to do
what should finally appear to him right. He was agst. the Report because
it maintained the improper Constitution of the 2d. branch. It made it
another Congress, a mere whisp of straw. It had been sd. [by Mr. Gerry]
that the new Governt. would be partly national, partly federal; that it
ought in the first quality to protect individuals; in the second, the
States. But in what quality was it to protect the aggregate interest of
the whole. Among the many provisions which had been urged, he had seen
none for supporting the dignity and splendor of the American Empire. It
had been one of our greatest misfortunes that the great objects of the
nation had been sacrificed constantly to local views; in like manner as
the general interests of States had been sacrificed to those of the
Counties. What is to be the check in the Senate? none; unless it be to
keep the majority of the people from injuring particular States. But
particular States ought to be injured for the sake of a majority of the
people, in case their conduct should deserve it. Suppose they should
insist on claims evidently unjust, and pursue them in a manner
detrimental to the whole body. Suppose they should give themselves up to
foreign influence. Ought they to be protected in such cases. They were
originally nothing more than colonial corporations. On the declaration
of Independence, a Governmt. was to be formed. The small States aware of
the necessity of preventing anarchy, and taking advantage of the moment,
extorted from the large ones an equality of votes. Standing now on that
ground, they demand under the new system greater rights as men, than
their fellow Citizens of the large States. The proper answer to them is
that the same necessity of which they formerly took advantage, does not
now exist, and that the large States are at liberty now to consider what
is right, rather than what may be expedient. We must have an efficient
Govt. and if there be an efficiency in the local Govts. the former is
impossible. Germany alone proves it. Notwithstanding their common diet,
notwithstanding the great prerogatives of the Emperor as head of the
Empire, and his vast resources, as sovereign of his particular
dominions, no union is maintained: foreign influence disturbs every
internal operation, & there is no energy whatever in the general
Governmt. Whence does this proceed? From the energy of the local
authorities; from its being considered of more consequence to support
the Prince of Hesse, than the Happiness of the people of Germany. Do
Gentlemen wish this to be ye case here. Good God, Sir, is it possible
they can so delude themselves. What if all the Charters & Constitutions
of the States were thrown into the fire, and all their demagogues into
the ocean. What would it be to the happiness of America. And will not
this be the case here if we pursue the train in wch. the business lies.
We shall establish an Aulic Council without an Emperor to execute its
decrees. The same circumstances which unite the people here, unite them
in Germany. They have there a common language, a common law, common
usages and manners, and a common interest in being united; yet their
local jurisdictions destroy every tie. The case was the same in the
Grecian States. The United Netherlands are at this time torn in
factions. With these examples before our eyes shall we form
establishments which must necessarily produce the same effects. It is of
no consequence from what districts the 2d. branch shall be drawn, if it
be so constituted as to yield an asylum agst. these evils. As it is now
constituted he must be agst. its being drawn from the States in equal
portions. But shall he was [7] ready to join in devising such an
amendment of the plan, as will be most likely to secure our liberty &
happiness.

Mr. SHERMAN & Mr. ELSEWORTH moved to postpone the Question on the Report
from the Committee of a member from each State, in order to wait for the
Report from the Come. of 5 last appointed.

Masts. ay. Cont. ay. N. Y. no. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. Maryland ay. Va.
no. N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [8]

Adjd.

___________

1. The words "The question" are here inserted in the transcript.

2. The word "this" is substituted in the transcript for "the."

3. The words "yesterday appointed" are transposed to read "appointed
yesterday" in the transcript.

4. The word "the" is omitted in the transcript.

5. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

6. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New York, New Jersey,
Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina, aye -- 6; Pennsylvania, Virginia,
South Carolina, no -- 3; Massachusetts, Georgia, divided."

7. The words "shall be" are substituted in the transcript for "shall he
was."

8. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, aye -- 6; New York, Virginia,
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 5."


