TUESDAY  SEPr 4.  1787. [1]  IN CONVENTION

Mr. BREARLY from the Committee of eleven made a further partial
Report as follows

"The Committee of Eleven to whom sundry resolutions &c were
referred on the 31st. of August, report that in their opinion the
following additions and alterations should be made to the Report
before the Convention, viz

    [*2] (1.) The first clause of sect: 1. art. 7. to read as follow --
'The Legislature shall have power to lay and collect taxes duties
imposts & excises, to pay the debts and provide for the common defence &
general welfare, of the U. S.'

    (2). At the end of the 2d. clause of sect. 1. art. 7. add 'and with
the Indian Tribes.'

    (3) In the place of the 9th. art. Sect. 1. to be inserted 'The
Senate of the U. S. shall have power to try all impeachments; but
no person shall be convicted without the concurrence of two
thirds of the members present.'

    (4) After the word 'Excellency' in sect. 1. art. 10. to be
inserted. 'He shall hold his office during the term of four years,
and together with the vice-President, chosen for the same term, be
elected in the following manner, viz. Each State shall appoint in
such manner as its Legislature may direct, a number of electors
equal to the whole number of Senators and members of the House
of Representatives to which the State may be entitled in the
Legislature. The Electors shall meet in their respective States, and
vote by ballot for two persons, of whom one at least shall not be
an inhabitant of the same State with themselves; and they shall
make a list of all the persons voted for, and of the number of
votes for each, which list they shall sign and certify and transmit
sealed to the Seat of the Genl. Government, directed to the
President of the Senate -- The President of the Senate shall in that
House open all the certificates; and the votes shall be then & there
counted. The Person having the greatest number of votes shall be
the President, if such number be a majority of that of the electors;
and if there be more than one who have such majority, and have
an equal number of votes, then the Senate shall immediately
choose by ballot one of them for President: but if no person have
a majority, then from the five highest on the list, the Senate shall
choose by ballot the President. And in every case after the choice
of the President, the person having the greatest number of votes
shall be vice- president: but if there should remain two or more
who have equal votes, the Senate shall choose from them the
vice-President. The Legislature may determine the time of
choosing and assembling the Electors, and the manner of
certifying and transmitting their votes.'

    (5) 'Sect. 2. No person except a natural born citizen or a
Citizen of the U. S. at the time of the adoption of this Constitution
shall be eligible to the office of President; nor shall any person be
elected to that office, who shall be under the age of thirty five
years, and who has not been in the whole, at least fourteen years
a resident within the U. S.'

    (6) 'Sect. 3. The vice-president shall be ex officio President of
the Senate, except when they sit to try the impeachment of the
President, in which case the Chief Justice shall preside, and
excepting also when he shall exercise the powers and duties of
President, in which case & in case of his absence, the Senate shall
chuse a President pro tempore -- The vice President when acting
as President of the Senate shall not have a vote unless the House
be equally divided.'

    (7) 'Sect. 4. The President by and with the advice and Consent
of the Senate, shall have power to make Treaties; and he shall
nominate and by and with the advice and consent of the Senate
shall appoint ambassadors, and other public Ministers, Judges of
the Supreme Court, and all other Officers of the U. S., whose
appointments are not otherwise herein provided for. But no
Treaty shall be made without the consent of two thirds of the
members present.'

    (8) After the words -- "into the service of the U. S." in sect. 2.
art: 10. add 'and may require the opinion in writing of the principal
officer in each of the Executive Departments, upon any subject
relating to the duties of their respective offices.'

[3] The latter part of Sect. 2. Art: 10. to read as follows.

    (9) [3] 'He shall be removed from his office on impeachment by
the House of Representatives, and conviction by the Senate, for
Treason, or bribery, and in case of his removal as aforesaid,
death, absence, resignation or inability to discharge the powers or
duties of his office, the vice-president shall exercise those powers
and duties until another President be chosen, or until the inability
of the President be removed.'

The (1st.) clause of the Report was agreed to, nem. con.

The (2) clause was also agreed to nem: con:

The (3) clause was postponed in order to decide previously on the
mode of electing the President.

The (4) clause was accordingly taken up.

Mr. GORHAM disapproved of making the next highest after the
President, the vice-President, without referring the decision to the
Senate in case the next highest should have less than a majority of
votes. as the regulation stands a very obscure man with very few
votes may arrive at that appointment

Mr. SHERMAN said the object of this clause of the report of the
Committee was to get rid of the ineligibility, which was attached to
the mode of election by the Legislature, & to render the Executive
independent of the Legislature. As the choice of the President was
to be made out of the five highest, obscure characters were
sufficiently guarded against in that case; and he had no objection
to requiring the vice-President to be chosen in like manner, where
the choice was not decided by a majority in the first instance

Mr. MADISON was apprehensive that by requiring both the
President & vice President to be chosen out of the five highest
candidates, the attention of the electors would be turned too much
to making candidates instead of giving their votes in order to a
definitive choice. Should this turn be given to the business, the
election would, in fact be consigned to the Senate altogether. It
would have the effect at the same time, he observed, of giving the
nomination of the candidates to the largest States.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS concurred in, & enforced the remarks of Mr.
Madison.

Mr. RANDOLPH & Mr. PINKNEY wished for a particular explanation
& discussion of the reasons for changing the mode of electing the
Executive.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS said he would give the reasons of the
Committee and his own. The 1st. was the danger of intrigue &
faction if the appointmt. should be made by the Legislature. 2. [4]
the inconveniency [5] of an ineligibility required by that mode in
order to lessen its evils. 3. [6] The difficulty of establishing a Court
of Impeachments, other than the Senate which would not be so
proper for the trial nor the other branch for the impeachment of
the President, if appointed by the Legislature, 4. [7] No body had
appeared to be satisfied with an appointment by the Legislature. 5.
[8] Many were anxious even for an immediate choice by the people.
6. [9] the indispensible necessity of making the Executive
independent of the Legislature. -- As the Electors would vote at
the same time throughout the U. S. and at so great a distance from
each other, the great evil of cabal was avoided. It would be
impossible also to corrupt them. A conclusive reason for making
the Senate instead of the Supreme Court the Judge of
impeachments, was that the latter was to try the President after
the trial of the impeachment.

Col: MASON confessed that the plan of the Committee had
removed some capital objections, particularly the danger of cabal
and corruption. It was liable however to this strong objection, that
nineteen times in twenty the President would be chosen by the
Senate, an improper body for the purpose

Mr. BUTLER thought the mode not free from objections, but much
more so than an election by the Legislature, where as in elective
monarchies, cabal faction & violence would be sure to prevail.

Mr. PINKNEY stated as objections to the mode 1. [10] that it threw
the whole appointment in fact into the hands of the Senate. 2. [10]
The Electors will be strangers to the several candidates and of
course unable to decide on their comparative merits. 3. [10] It
makes the Executive reeligible which will endanger the public
liberty. 4. [10] It makes the same body of men which will in fact
elect the President his Judges in case of an impeachment.

Mr. WILLIAMSON had great doubts whether the advantage of
reeligibility would balance the objection to such a dependence of
the President on the Senate for his reappointment. He thought at
least the Senate ought to be restrained to the two highest on the
list

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS said the principal advantage aimed at was that
of taking away the opportunity for cabal. The President may be
made if thought necessary ineligible on this as well as on any other
mode of election. Other inconveniences may be no less redressed
on this plan than any other.

Mr. BALDWIN thought the plan not so objectionable when well
considered, as at first view. The increasing intercourse among the
people of the States, would render important characters less &
less unknown; and the Senate would consequently be less & less
likely to have the eventual appointment thrown into their hands.

Mr. WILSON. This subject has greatly divided the House, and will
also divide [11] people out of doors. It is in truth the most difficult
of all on which we have had to decide. He had never made up an
opinion on it entirely to his own satisfaction. He thought the plan
on the whole a valuable improvement on the former. It gets rid of
one great evil, that of cabal & corruption; & Continental
Characters will multiply as we more & more coalesce, so as to
enable the electors in every part of the Union to know & judge of
them. It clears the way also for a discussion of the question of
reeligibility on its own merits, which the former mode of election
seems to forbid. He thought it might be better however to refer
the eventual appointment to the Legislature than to the Senate,
and to confine it to a smaller number than five of the Candidates.
The eventual election by the Legislature wd. not open cabal anew,
as it would be restrained to certain designated objects of choice,
and as these must have had the previous sanction of a number of
the States: and if the election be made as it ought as soon as the
votes of the electors are opened & it is known that no one has a
majority of the whole, there can be little danger of corruption.
Another reason for preferring the Legislature to the Senate in this
business, was that the House of Reps. will be so often changed as
to be free from the influence & faction to which the permanence
of the Senate may subject that branch.

Mr. RANDOLPH preferred the former mode of constituting the
Executive, but if the change was to be made, he wished to know
why the eventual election was referred to the Senate and not to
the Legislature? He saw no necessity for this and many objections
to it. He was apprehensive also that the advantage of the eventual
appointment would fall into the hands of the States near the Seat
of Government.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS said the Senate was preferred because fewer
could then, say to the President, you owe your appointment to us.
He thought the President would not depend so much on the
Senate for his re-appointment as on his general good conduct.

The further consideration of the Report was postponed that each
member might take a copy of the remainder of it.

The following motion was referred to the Committee of Eleven --
to wit, -- "To prepare & report a plan for defraying the expences
of the Convention"

[12] Mr. PINKNEY moved a clause declaring "that each House should
be judge of the privilege [14] of its own members. Mr. GOVr. MORRIS
2ded. the motion

Mr. RANDOLPH & Mr. MADISON expressed doubts as to the
propriety of giving such a power, & wished for a postponement.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS thought it so plain a case that no postponement
could be necessary.

Mr. WILSON thought the power involved, and the express insertion
of it needless. It might beget doubts as to the power of other
public bodies, as Courts &c. Every Court is the judge of its own
privileges.

Mr. MADISON distinguished between the power of Judging of
privileges previously & duly established, and the effect of the
motion which would give a discretion to each House as to the
extent of its own privileges. He suggested that it would be better to
make provision for ascertaining by law, the privileges of each
House, than to allow each House to decide for itself. He suggested
also the necessity of considering what privileges ought to be
allowed to the Executive.

Adjourned

___________

1. The year "1787" is omitted in the transcript.

*2. This is an exact copy. The variations in that in the printed Journal
are occasioned by its incorporation of subsequent amendments. This
remark is applicable to other cases.

3. The figure "9" transposed to precede the sentence beginning "The
latter" ... in the transcript.

4. The figure "2" is changed in the transcript to "The next was."

5. The word "inconveniency" is changed in the transcript to
"inconvenience".

6. The figure "3" is changed in the transcript to "The third was."

7. The figure "4" is changed in the transcript to "In the fourth place."

8. The figure "5" is changed in the transcript to "In the fifth place."

9. The figure "6" is changed in the transcript to "And finally, the
sixth reason was."

10. The figures "1," "2," "3" and "4" are changed in the transcript to
"Secondly," etc.

11. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

12. This motion not inserted [8] in the printed Journal.

13. The words "is not contained" are substituted in the transcript for"
not inserted."

14. The transcript uses the word "privilege" in the plural.


