SATURDAY.  JULY 14.   IN CONVENTION

Mr. L. MARTIN called for the question on the whole report, including the
parts relating to the origination of money bills, and the equality of
votes in the 2d. branch.

Mr. GERRY. wished before the question should be put, that the attention
of the House might be turned to the dangers apprehended from Western
States. He was for admitting them on liberal terms, but not for putting
ourselves into their hands. They will if they acquire power like all
men, abuse it. They will oppress commerce, and drain our wealth into the
Western Country. To guard agst. these consequences, he thought it
necessary to limit the number of new States to be admitted into the
Union, in such a manner, that they should never be able to outnumber the
Atlantic States. He accordingly moved "that in order to secure the
liberties of the States already confederated, the number of
Representatives in the 1st. branch, of the States which shall hereafter
be established, shall never exceed in number, the Representatives from
such of the States as shall accede to this confederation.

Mr. KING. seconded the motion.

Mr. SHERMAN, thought there was no probability that the number of future
States would exceed that of the Existing States. If the event should
ever happen, it was too remote to be taken into consideration at this
time. Besides We are providing for our posterity, for our children & our
grand Children, who would be as likely to be citizens of new Western
States, as of the old States. On this consideration alone, we ought to
make no such discrimination as was proposed by the motion.

Mr. GERRY. If some of our children should remove, others will stay
behind, and he thought it incumbent on us to provide for their
interests. There was a rage for emigration from the Eastern States to
the Western Country, and he did not wish those remaining behind to be at
the mercy of the Emigrants. Besides foreigners are resorting to that
country, and it is uncertain what turn things may take there. -- On the
question for agreeing to the Motion of Mr. Gerry, it passed in the
negative.

Mas. ay. Cont. ay. N.J. no. Pa. divd. Del: ay. Md. ay. Va. no. N.C. no.
S.C. no. Geo. no. [1]

Mr. RUTLIDGE proposed to reconsider the two propositions touching the
originating of money bills in the first & the equality of votes in the
second branch.

Mr. SHERMAN was for the question on the whole at once. It was he said a
conciliatory plan, it had been considered in all its parts, a great deal
of time had been spent on [2] it, and if any part should now be altered,
it would be necessary to go over the whole ground again.

Mr. L. MARTIN urged the question on the whole. He did not like many
parts of it. He did not like having two branches, nor the inequality of
votes in the 1st. branch. He was willing however to make trial of the
plan, rather than do nothing.

Mr. WILSON traced the progress of the report through its several stages,
remarking yt. when on the question concerning an equality of votes, the
House was divided, our Constituents had they voted as their
representatives did, would have stood as 2/3 agst. the equality, and 1/3
only in favor of it. This fact would ere long be known, and it will [3]
appear that this fundamental point has been carried by 1/3 agst. 2/3 .
What hopes will our Constituents entertain when they find that the
essential principles of justice have been violated in the outset of the
Governmt. As to the privilege of originating money bills, it was not
considered by any as of much moment, and by many as improper in itself.
He hoped both clauses wd. be reconsidered. The equality of votes was a
point of such critical importance, that every opportunity ought to be
allowed, for discussing and collecting the mind of the Convention on [4]
it.

Mr. L. MARTIN denies that there were 2/3 agst. the equality of votes.
The States that please to call themselves large, are the weekest in the
Union. Look at Masts. Look at Virga. Are they efficient States? He was
for letting a separation take place if they desired it. He had rather
there should be two Confederacies, than one founded on any other
principle than an equality of votes in the 2d. branch at least.

Mr. WILSON was not surprised that those who say that a minority is [5]
more than the [6] majority should say that 7 the minority is stronger
than the majority. He supposed the next assertion will be that they are
richer also; though he hardly expected it would be persisted in when the
States shall be called on for taxes & troops -- 

Mr. GERRY. also animadverted on Mr. L. Martins remarks on the weakness
of Masts. He favored the reconsideration with a view not of destroying
the equality of votes; but of providing that the States should vote per
capita, which he said would prevent the delays & inconveniences that had
been experienced in Congs. and would give a national aspect & Spirit to
the management of business. He did not approve of a reconsideration of
the clause relating to money bills. It was of great consequence. It was
the corner stone of the accomodation. If any member of the Convention
had the exclusive privilege of making propositions, would any one say
that it would give him no advantage over other members. The Report was
not altogether to his mind. But he would agree to it as it stood rather
than throw it out altogether.

The reconsideration being tacitly agreed to.

Mr. PINKNEY moved that instead of an equality of votes, the States
should be represented in the 2d. branch as follows: N. H. by. 2.
members. Mas. 4. R. I. 1. Cont. 3. N.Y. 3. N.J. 2. Pa. 4. Del I. Md. 3.
Virga.5. N.C.3. S.C.3. Geo. 2.making in the whole 36.

Mr. WILSON seconds the motion

Mr. DAYTON. The smaller States can never give up their equality. For
himself he would in no event yield that security for their rights.

Mr. SHERMAN urged the equality of votes not so much as a security for
the small States; as for the State Govts. which could not be preserved
unless they were represented & had a negative in the Genl. Government.
He had no objection to the members in the 2d. b. voting per capita, as
had been suggested by [Mr. Gerry]

Mr. MADISON concurred in this motion of Mr. Pinkney as a reasonable
compromise.

Mr. GERRY said he should like the motion, but could see no hope of
success. An accomodation must take place, and it was apparent from what
had been seen that it could not do so on the ground of the motion. He
was utterly against a partial confederacy, leaving other States to
accede or not accede; as had been intimated.

Mr. KING said it was always with regret that he differed from his
colleagues, but it was his duty to differ from [Mr. Gerry] on this
occasion. He considered the proposed Government as substantially and
formally, a General and National Government over the people of America.
There never will be a case in which it will act as a federal Government
on the States and not on the individual Citizens. And is it not a clear
principle that in a free Govt. those who are to be the objects of a
Govt. ought to influence the operations of it? What reason can be
assigned why the same rule of representation sd. not prevail in the 2d.
branch [8] as in the 1st.? He could conceive none. On the contrary,
every view of the subject that presented itself, seemed to require it.
Two objections had been raised agst. it: drawn 1. [9] from the terms of
the existing compact 2. [9] from a supposed danger to the smaller
States. -- As to the first objection he thought it inapplicable.
According to the existing confederation, the rule by which the public
burdens is to be apportioned is fixed, and must be pursued. In the
proposed Govermt. it can not be fixed, because indirect taxation is to
be substituted. The Legislature therefore will have full discretion to
impose taxes in such modes & proportions as they may judge expedient. As
to the 2d. objection, he thought it of as little weight. The Genl.
Governt. can never wish to intrude on the State Governts. There could be
no temptation. None had been pointed out. In order to prevent the
interference of measures which seemed most likely to happen, he would
have no objection to throwing all the State debts into the federal debt,
making one aggregate debt of about 70,000,000 of dollars, and leaving it
to be discharged by the Genl. Govt. -- According to the idea of securing
the State Govts. there ought to be three distinct legislative branches.
The 2d. was admitted to be necessary, and was actually meant, to check
the 1st. branch, to give more wisdom, system, & stability to the Govt.
and ought clearly as it was to operate on the people to be proportioned
to them. For the third purpose of securing the States, there ought then
to be a 3d. branch, representing the States as such, and guarding by
equal votes their rights & dignities. He would not pretend to be as
thoroughly acquainted with his immediate Constituents as his colleagues,
but it was his firm belief that Masts. would never be prevailed on to
yield to an equality of votes. In N. York (he was sorry to be obliged to
say any thing relative to that State in the absence of its
representatives, but the occasion required, it), in N. York he had seen
that the most powerful argument used by the considerate opponents to the
grant of the Impost to Congress, was pointed agst. the viccious
constitution of Congs. with regard to representation & suffrage. He was
sure that no Govt. could [10] last that was not founded on just
principles. He prefer'd the doing of nothing, to an allowance of an
equal vote to all the States. It would be better he thought to submit to
a little more confusion & convulsion, than to submit to such an evil. It
was difficult to say what the views of different Gentlemen might be.
Perhaps there might be some who thought no Governmt. co-extensive with
the U. States could be established with a hope of its answering the
purpose. Perhaps there might be other fixed opinions incompatible with
the object we were [11] pursuing. If there were, he thought it but
candid that Gentlemen would [12] speak out that we might understand one
another.

Mr. STRONG. The Convention had been much divided in opinion. In order to
avoid the consequences of it, an accomodation had been proposed. A
committee had been appointed: and though some of the members of it were
averse to an equality of votes, a Report has [13] been made in favor of
it. It is agreed on all hands that Congress are nearly at an end. If no
Accomodation takes place, the Union itself must soon be dissolved. It
has been suggested that if we can not come to any general agreement, the
principal States may form & recommend a scheme of Government. But will
the small States in that case ever accede [14] it. Is it probable that
the large States themselves will under such circumstances embrace and
ratify it. He thought the small States had made a considerable
concession in the article of money bills; and that they might naturally
expect some concessions on the other side. From this view of the matter
he was compelled to give his vote for the Report taken all together.

Mr. MADISON expressed his apprehensions that if the proper foundation of
Govenmt -- was destroyed, by substituting an equality in place of a
proportional Representation, no proper superstructure would be raised.
If the small States really wish for a Government armed with the powers
necessary to secure their liberties, and to enforce obedience on the
larger members as well as on [15] themselves he could not help thinking
them extremely mistaken in their [16] means. He reminded them of the
consequences of laying the existing confederation [17] on improper
principles. All the principal parties to its compilation, joined
immediately in mutilating & fettering the Governmt. in such a manner
that it has disappointed every hope placed on it. He appealed to the
doctrine & arguments used by themselves on a former occasion. It had
been very properly observed by [Mr. Patterson] that Representation was
an expedient by which the meeting of the people themselves was rendered
unnecessary; and that the representatives ought therefore to bear a
proportion to the votes which their constituents if convened, would
respectively have. Was not this remark as applicable to one branch of
the Representation as to the other? But it had been said that the
Governt. would in its operation be partly federal, partly national; that
altho' in the latter respect the Representatives of the people ought to
be in proportion to the people: yet in the former it ought to be
according to the number of States. If there was any solidity in this
distinction he was ready to abide by it, if there was none it ought to
be abandoned. In all cases where the Genl. Government. is to act on the
people, let the people be represented and the votes be proportional. In
all cases where the Governt. is to act on the States as such, in like
manner as Congs. now act on them, let the States be represented & the
votes be equal. This was the true ground of compromise if there was any
ground at all. But he denied that there was any ground. He called for a
single instance in which the Genl. Govt. was not to operate on the
people individually. The practicability of making laws, with coercive
sanctions, for the States as Political bodies, had been exploded on all
hands. He observed that the people of the large States would in some way
or other secure to themselves a weight proportioned to the importance
accruing from their superior numbers. If they could not effect it by a
proportional representation in the Govt. they would probably accede to
no Govt. which did not in [18] great measure depend for its efficacy on
their voluntary cooperation; in which case they would indirectly secure
their object. The existing confederacy proved that where the Acts of the
Genl. Govt. were to be executed by the particular Govts. the latter had
a weight in proportion to their importance. No one would say that either
in Congs. or out of Congs. Delaware had equal weight with Pensylva. If
the latter was to supply ten times as much money as the former, and no
compulsion could be used, it was of ten times more importance, that she
should voluntarily furnish the supply. In the Dutch confederacy the
votes of the Provinces were equal. But Holland which supplies about half
the money, governs [19] the whole republic. He enumerated the objections
agst. an equality of votes in the 2d. branch, notwithstanding the
proportional representation in the first. 1. the minority could negative
the will of the majority of the people. 2. they could extort measures by
making them a condition of their assent to other necessary measures. 3.
they could obtrude measures on the majority by virtue of the peculiar
powers which would be vested in the Senate. 4. the evil instead of being
cured by time, would increase with every new State that should be
admitted, as they must all be admitted on the principle of equality. 5.
the perpetuity it would give to the preponderance of the Northn. agst.
the Southn. Scale was a serious consideration. It seemed now to be
pretty well understood that the real difference of interests lay, not
between the large & small but between the N. & Southn States. The
institution of slavery & its consequences formed the line of
discrimination. There were 5 States on the South, [20] 8 on the Northn.
side of this line. Should a proportl. representation take place it was
true, the N. side [21] would still outnumber the other; but not in the
same degree, at this time; and every day would tend towards an
equilibrium.

Mr. WILSON would add a few words only. If equality in the 2d. branch was
an error that time would correct, he should be less anxious to exclude
it being sensible that perfection was unattainable in any plan; but
being a fundamental and a perpetual error, it ought by all means to be
avoided. A vice in the Representation, like an error in the first
concoction, must be followed by disease, convulsions, and finally death
itself. The justice of the general principle of proportional
representation has not in argument at least been yet contradicted. But
it is said that a departure from it so far as to give the States an
equal vote in one branch of the Legislature is essential to their
preservation. He had considered this position maturely, but could not
see its application. That the States ought to be preserved he admitted.
But does it follow that an equality of votes is necessary for the
purpose? Is there any reason to suppose that if their preservation
should depend more on the large than on the small States the security of
the States agst. the Genl. Government would be diminished? Are the large
States less attached to their existence, more likely to commit suicide,
than the small? An equal vote then is not necessary as far as he can
conceive: and is liable among other objections to this insuperable one:
The great fault of the existing confederacy is its inactivity. It has
never been a complaint agst. Congs. that they governed overmuch. The
complaint has been that they have governed too little. To remedy this
defect we were sent here. Shall we effect the cure by establishing an
equality of votes as is proposed? no: this very equality carries us
directly to Congress: to the system which it is our duty to rectify. The
small States cannot indeed act, by virtue of this equality, but they may
controul the Govt. as they have done in Congs. This very measure is here
prosecuted by a minority of the people of America. Is then the object of
the Convention likely to be accomplished in this way? Will not our
Constituents say? we sent you to form an efficient Govt. and you have
given us one more complex indeed, but having all the weakness of the
former Governt. He was anxious for uniting all the States under one
Governt. He knew there were some respectable men who preferred three
confederacies, united by offensive & defensive alliances. Many things
may be plausibly said, some things may be justly said, in favor of such
a project. He could not however concur in it himself; but he thought
nothing so pernicious as bad first principles.

Mr. ELSEWORTH asked two questions one of Mr. Wilson, whether he had ever
seen a good measure fail in Congs. for want of a majority of States in
its favor? He had himself never known such an instance: the other of Mr.
Madison whether a negative lodged with the majority of the States even
the smallest, could be more dangerous than the qualified negative
proposed to be lodged in a single Executive Magistrate, who must be
taken from some one State?

Mr. SHERMAN, signified that his expectation was that the Genl.
Legislature would in some cases act on the federal principle, of
requiring quotas. But he thought it ought to be empowered to carry their
own plans into execution, if the States should fail to supply their
respective quotas.

On the question for agreeing to Mr. Pinkney's motion for allowing N. H.
2. Mas. 4. &c -- it passed in the negative Mas. no. Mr. King ay. Mr.
Ghorum absent. cont. no. N.J. no. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay. N. C.
no. S. C. ay Geo. no. [22]

Adjourned

___________

1. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut,
Delaware, Maryland, aye -- 4; New Jersey, Virginia, North Carolina,
South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 5; Pennsylvania, divided."

2. The word "upon" is substituted in the transcript for "on."

3. The word "would" is substituted in the transcript for "will."

4. The word "upon" is substituted in the transcript for "on."

5. The word "does" is substituted in the transcript for "is."

6. The word "a" is substituted in the transcript for "the."

7. The word "that" is omitted in the transcript.

8. In the transcript the word "branch" is transposed, making the phrase
read: "second, as in the first, branch."

9. The figures "1" and "2" are changed to "first" and "Secondly" in the
transcript.

10. The word "would" is substituted in the transcript for "could."

11. The word "are" is substituted in the transcript for "were."

12. The word "should" is substituted in the transcript for "would."

13. The word "had" is substituted in the transcript for "has."

14. The word "to" is here inserted in the transcript.

15. The word "on" is omitted in the transcript.

16. The word "the" is substituted in the transcript for "their."

17. The transcript italicizes the words "existing confederation."

18. The word "a" is here inserted in the transcript.

19. The word "governed" is substituted in the transcript for "governs."

20. The word "Southern" is substituted in the transcript for "South."

21. The word "side" is omitted in the transcript.

22. In the transcript the vote reads: "Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia,
South Carolina, aye -- 4; Massachusetts, [Mr. King, aye, Mr. Gorham,
absent], Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware, North Carolina, Georgia, no
-- 6."


