WEDNESDAY  SEPr 5.  1787 [1]  IN CONVENTION

Mr. BREARLEY from the Committee of Eleven made a farther report as
follows,

    (1) To add to the clause "to declare war" the words "and grant
letters of marque and reprisal"

    (2) To add to the clause "to raise and support armies" the words
"but no appropriation of money to that use shall be for a longer term
than two years"

    (3) Instead of sect: 12. art 6. say -- "All bills for raising revenue
shall originate in the House of Representatives, and shall be subject
to alterations and amendments by the Senate: no money shall be
drawn from the Treasury, but in consequence of appropriations
made by law."

    (4) Immediately before the last clause of sect. 1. art. 7. insert "To
exercise exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever over such district
(not exceeding ten miles square) as may by Cession of particular
States and the acceptance of the Legislature become the seat of the
Government of the U. S. and to exercise like authority over all places
purchased for the erection of Forts, Magazines, Arsenals,
Dock-Yards, and other needful buildings"

    (5) "To promote the progress of Science and [2] useful arts by
securing for limited times to authors & inventors, the exclusive right
to their respective writings and discoveries"

This report being taken up. -- The (1) clause was agreed to nem: con:

To the (2) clause Mr. GERRY objected that it admitted of appropriations
to an army, for two years instead of one, for which he could not
conceive a reason. that it implied that [3] there was to be a standing
army which he inveighed against as dangerous to liberty, as unnecessary
even for so great an extent of Country as this, and if necessary, some
restriction on the number & duration ought to be provided: Nor was this
a proper time for such an innovation. The people would not bear it.

Mr. SHERMAN remarked that the appropriations were permitted only, not
required to be for two years. As the Legislature is to be biennially
elected, it would be inconvenient to require appropriations to be for
one year, as there might be no Session within the time necessary to
renew them. He should himself he said like a reasonable restriction on
the number and continuance of an army in time of peace.

The clause (2) was [4] agreed to nem: con:

The (3) clause, Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved to postpone. It had been agreed
to in the Committee on the ground of compromise, and he should feel
himself at liberty to dissent to [5] it, if on the whole he should not
be satisfied with certain other parts to be settled. -- 

Mr. PINKNEY 2ded. the motion

Mr. SHERMAN was for giving immediate ease to those who looked on this
clause as of great moment, and for trusting to their concurrence in
other proper measures.

On the question for postponing 

N. H. ay. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. no. N.
C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [6]

So much of the (4) clause as related to the seat of Government was
agreed to nem: con:

On the residue, to wit, "to exercise like authority over all places
purchased for forts &c.

Mr. GERRY contended that this power might be made use of to enslave any
particular State by buying up its territory, and that the strongholds
proposed would be a means of awing the State into an undue obedience to
the Genl. Government.

Mr. KING thought himself the provision unnecessary, the power being
already involved: but would move to insert after the word "purchased"
the words "by the consent of the Legislature of the State" This would
certainly make the power safe.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS 2ded. the motion, which was agreed to nem: con: as was
then the residue of the clause as amended.

The (5) clause was agreed to nem: con:

The following resolution & order being reported from the Committee of
eleven, to wit,

"Resolved that the U. S. in Congress be requested to allow and cause to
be paid to the Secretary and other officers of this Convention such sums
in proportion to their respective times of service, as are allowed to
the Secretary & similar officers of Congress."

"Ordered that the Secretary make out & transmit to the Treasury office
of the U. S. an account for the said Services, & for the incidental
expenses of this Convention"

The resolution & order were separately agreed to nem: con:

Mr. GERRY gave notice that he should move to reconsider articles XIX.
XX. XXI. XXII.

Mr. WILLIAMSON gave like notice as to the Article fixing the number of
Representatives, which he thought too small. He wished also to allow
Rho: Island more than one, as due to her probable number of people, and
as proper to stifle any pretext arising from her absence on the
occasion.

The Report made yesterday as to the appointment of the Executive being
[7] taken up.

Mr. PINKNEY renewed his opposition to the mode, arguing 1. [8] that the
electors will not have sufficient knowledge of the fittest men, & will
be swayed by an attachment to the eminent men of their respective
States. Hence 2dly. the dispersion of the votes would leave the
appointment with the Senate, and as the President's reappointment will
thus depend on the Senate he will be the mere creature of that body. 3.
[8] He will combine with the Senate agst. the House of Representatives.
4. [8] This change in the mode of election was meant to get rid of the
ineligibility of the President a second time, whereby he will become
fixed for life under the auspices of the Senate

Mr. GERRY did not object to this plan of constituting the Executive in
itself, but should be governed in his final vote by the powers that may
be given to the President.

Mr. RUTLIDGE was much opposed to the plan reported by the Committee. It
would throw the whole power into the Senate. He was also against a
re-eligibility. He moved to postpone the Report under consideration &
take up the original plan of appointment by the Legislature, to wit. "He
shall be elected by joint ballot by the Legislature to which election a
majority of the votes of the members present shall be required: He shall
hold his office during the term of seven years; but shall not be elected
a second time."

On this motion to postpone

N. H. divd. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no.
N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. no. [9]

Col. MASON admitted that there were objections to an appointment by the
Legislature as originally planned. He had not yet made up his mind, but
would state his objections to the mode proposed by the Committee. 1.
[10] It puts the appointment in fact into the hands of the Senate, as it
will rarely happen that a majority of the whole votes will fall on any
one candidate: and as the Existing President will always be one of the 5
highest, his reappointment will of course depend on the Senate. 2. [10]
Considering the powers of the President & those of the Senate, if a
coalition should be established between these two branches, they will be
able to subvert the Constitution -- The great objection with him would
be removed by depriving the Senate of the eventual election. He
accordingly moved to strike out the words "if such number be a majority
of that of the electors."

Mr. WILLIAMSON 2ded. the motion. He could not agree to the clause
without some such modification. He preferred making the highest tho' not
having a majority of the votes, President, to a reference of the matter
to the Senate. Referring the appointment to the Senate lays a certain
foundation for corruption & aristocracy.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS thought the point of less consequence than it was
supposed on both sides. It is probable that a majority of votes will
fall on the same man. As each elector is to give two votes, more than
1/4 will give a majority. Besides as one vote is to be given to a man
out of the State, and as this vote will not be thrown away, 1/2 the
votes will fall on characters eminent & generally known. Again if the
President shall have given satisfaction, the votes will turn on him of
course, and a majority of them will reappoint him, without resort to the
Senate: If he should be disliked, all disliking him, would take care to
unite their votes so as to ensure his being supplanted.

Col. MASON those who think there is no danger of there not being a
majority for the same person in the first instance, ought to give up the
point to those who think otherwise.

Mr. SHERMAN reminded the opponents of the new mode proposed that if the
small states had the advantage in the Senate's deciding among the five
highest candidates, the large States would have in fact the nomination
of these candidates

On the motion of Col: Mason

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. ay. *11 Va.
no. N. C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. no. [12]

Mr. WILSON moved to strike out "Senate" and insert the word
"Legislature"

Mr. MADISON considered it as [13] a primary object to render an eventual
resort to any part of the Legislature improbable. He was apprehensive
that the proposed alteration would turn the attention of the large
States too much to the appointment of candidates, instead of aiming at
an effectual appointment of the officer, as the large States would
predominate in the Legislature which would have the final choice out of
the Candidates. Whereas if the Senate in which the small States
predominate should have this [14] final choice, the concerted effort of
the large States would be to make the appointment in the first instance
conclusive.

Mr. RANDOLPH. We have in some revolutions of this plan made a bold
stroke for Monarchy. We are now doing the same for an aristocracy. He
dwelt on the tendency of such an influence in the Senate over the
election of the President in addition to its other powers, to convert
that body into a real & dangerous Aristocracy.

Mr. DICKINSON was in favor of giving the eventual election to the
Legislature, instead of the Senate. It was too much influence to be
superadded to that body.

On the question moved by Mr. Wilson

N. H. divd. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. no. Va. ay.
N. C. no. S. C. ay. Geo. no. [15]

Mr. MADISON & Mr. WILLIAMSON moved to strike out the word "majority" and
insert "one third" so that the eventual power might not be exercised if
less than a majority, but not less than 1/3 of the Electors should vote
for the same person.

Mr. GERRY objected that this would put it in the power of three or four
States to put in whom they pleased.

Mr. WILLIAMSON. There are seven States which do not contain one third of
the people. If the Senate are to appoint, less than one sixth of the
people will have the power.

On the question 

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. ay. N.
C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. no. [16] 

Mr. GERRY suggested that the eventual election should be made by six
Senators and seven Representatives chosen by joint ballot of both
Houses.

Mr. KING observed that the influence of the Small States in the Senate
was somewhat balanced by the influence of the large States in bringing
forward the candidates; [*17] and also by the Concurrence of the small
States in the Committee in the clause vesting the exclusive origination
of Money bills in the House of Representatives.

Col: MASON moved to strike out the word "five" and insert the word
"three" as the highest candidates for the Senate to choose out of.

Mr. GERRY 2ded. the motion

Mr. SHERMAN would sooner give up the plan. He would prefer seven or
thirteen.

On the question moved by Col: Mason & Mr. Gerry

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Delaware Md. no. Va. ay. N.
C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. no. [19]

Mr. SPAIGHT and Mr. RUTLIDGE moved to strike out "five" and insert
"thirteen" -- to which all the States disagreed -- except N. C. & S. C.

Mr. MADISON & Mr. WILLIAMSON moved to insert after "Electors" the words
"who shall have balloted" so that the non voting electors not being
counted might not increase the number necessary as a majority of the
whole, to decide the choice without the agency of the Senate.

On this question

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay. N.
C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. no. [20]

Mr. DICKINSON moved, in order to remove ambiguity from the intention of
the clause as explained by the vote, to add, after the words "if such
number be a majority of the whole number of the electors" the word
"appointed"

On this motion

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Con: ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Delaware Md. ay. Va. no.
N. C. no. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [21]

Col: MASON. As the mode of appointment is now regulated, he could not
forbear expressing his opinion that it is utterly inadmissible. He would
prefer the Government of Prussia to one which will put all power into
the hands of seven or eight men, and fix an Aristocracy worse than
absolute monarchy. The words "and of their giving their votes" being
inserted on motion for that purpose, after the words "The Legislature
may determine the time of chusing and assembling the electors."

The House adjourned

___________

1. They year "1787" is omitted in the transcript.

2. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

3. The word "that" is omitted in the transcript.

4. The word "then" is here inserted in the transcript.

5. The word "to" is crossed out in the transcript and "from" is written
above it.

6. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Connecticut, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 9; Massachusetts, Virginia, no -- 2."

7. The word "then" is here inserted in the transcript.

8. The figures "1," "3" and "4" are changed to "first," "Thirdly" and
"Fourthly" in the transcript.

9. In the transcript the vote reads: "North Carolina, South Carolina,
aye -- 2; Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, Georgia, no -- 8; New Hampshire, divided."

10. The figures "1" and "2" are changed in the transcript to "First" and
"Secondly."

*11. In printed Journal Maryland -- no.

12. In the transcript the vote reads: "Maryland, [*11] North Carolina,
aye; the other nine States, no."

13. The word "as" is stricken out in the transcript.

14. The word "the" is substituted in the transcript for "this."

15. In the transcript the vote reads: "Pennsylvania, Virginia, South
Carolina, aye -- 3; Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware,
Maryland, North Carolina, Georgia, no -- 7; New Hampshire, divided."

16. In the transcript the vote reads: "Virginia, North Carolina, aye;
the other nine States, no."

*17. This explains the compromise mentioned above [18] by Mr. Govr.
Morris. Col. Mason Mr. Gerry & other members from large States set great
value on this privilege of originating money bills. Of this the members
from the small States, with some from the large States who wished a high
mounted Govt endeavored to avail themselves, by making that privilege,
the price of arrangements in the constitution favorable to the small
States, and to the elevation of the Government.

18. The words "alluded to" are substituted in the transcript for
"mentioned above."

19. In the transcript the vote reads: "Virginia, North Carolina, aye;
nine States, no."

20. In the transcript the vote reads: "Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia,
North Carolina, aye -- 4; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
Jersey, Delaware, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 7."

21. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, South
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 9; Virginia, North Carolina, no -- 2."


