MONDAY  JUNE 18th.  IN COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE ON THE PROPOSITIONS OF
Mr. PATTERSON & Mr. RANDOLPH

On motion of Mr. DICKINSON to postpone the 1st. Resolution in Mr.
Patterson's plan, in order to take up the following viz -- "that the
Articles of Confederation ought to be revised and amended, so as to
render the Government of the U.S. adequate to the exigences, the
preservation and the prosperity of the Union" the postponement was
agreed to by 10 States, Pen: divided.

Mr. HAMILTON, had been hitherto silent on the business before the
Convention, partly from respect to others whose superior abilities age &
experience rendered him unwilling to bring forward ideas dissimilar to
theirs, and partly from his delicate situation with respect to his own
State, to whose sentiments as expressed by his Colleagues, he could by
no means accede. The crisis however which now marked our affairs, was
too serious to permit any scruples whatever to prevail over the duty
imposed on every man to contribute his efforts for the public safety &
happiness. He was obliged therefore to declare himself unfriendly to
both plans. He was particularly opposed to that from N. Jersey, being
fully convinced, that no amendment of the Confederation, leaving the
States in possession of their Sovereignty could possibly answer the
purpose. On the other hand he confessed he was much discouraged by the
amazing extent of Country in expecting the desired blessings from any
general sovereignty that could be substituted. -- As to the powers of
the Convention, he thought the doubts started on that subject had arisen
from distinctions & reasonings too subtle. A federal Govt. he conceived
to mean an association of independent Communities into one. Different
Confederacies have different powers, and exercise them in different
ways. In some instances the powers are exercised over collective bodies;
in others over individuals, as in the German Diet -- & among ourselves
in cases of piracy. Great latitude therefore must be given to the
signification of the term. The plan last proposed departs itself from
the federal idea, as understood by some, since it is to operate
eventually on individuals. He agreed moreover with the Honble gentleman
from Va. [Mr. R.] that we owed it to our Country, to do on this
emergency whatever we should deem essential to its happiness. The States
sent us here to provide for the exigences of the Union. To rely on &
propose any plan not adequate to these exigences, merely because it was
not [1] clearly within our powers, would be to sacrifice the means to
the end. It may be said that the States can not ratify a plan not within
the purview of the article of [2] Confederation providing for
alterations & amendments. But may not the States themselves in which no
constitutional authority equal to this purpose exists in the
Legislatures, have had in view a reference to the people at large. In
the Senate of N. York, a proviso was moved, that no act of the
Convention should be binding untill it should be referred to the people
& ratified; and the motion was lost by a single voice only, the reason
assigned agst. it being, that it might possibly be found an inconvenient
shackle.

The great question is what provision shall we make for the happiness of
our Country? He would first make a comparative examination of the two
plans -- prove that there were essential defects in both -- and point
out such changes as might render a national one, efficacious. -- The
great & essential principles necessary for the support of Government are
I. an active & constant interest in supporting it. This principle does
not exist in the States in favor of the federal Govt. They have
evidently in a high degree, the esprit de corps. They constantly pursue
internal interests adverse to those of the whole. They have their
particular debts -- their particular plans of finance &c. All these when
opposed to, invariably prevail over the requisitions & plans of
Congress. 2. The love of power. Men love power. The same remarks are
applicable to this principle. The States have constantly shewn a
disposition rather to regain the powers delegated by them than to part
with more, or to give effect to what they had parted with. The ambition
of their demagogues is known to hate the controul of the Genl.
Government. It may be remarked too that the Citizens have not that
anxiety to prevent a dissolution of the Genl. Govt. as of the particular
Govts. A dissolution of the latter would be fatal; of the former would
still leave the purposes of Govt. attainable to a considerable degree.
Consider what such a State as Virga. will be in a few years, a few
compared with the life of nations. How strongly will it feel its
importance & self-sufficiency? 3. An habitual attachment of the people.
The whole force of this tie is on the side of the State Govt. Its
sovereignty is immediately before the eyes of the people: its protection
is immediately enjoyed by them. From its hand distributive justice, and
all those acts which familiarize & endear [3] Govt. to a people, are
dispensed to them. 4. Force by which may be understood a coertion of
laws or coertion of arms. Congs. have not the former except in few
cases. In particular States, this coercion is nearly sufficient; tho' he
held it in most cases, not entirely so. A certain portion of military
force is absolutely necessary in large communities. Masss. is now
feeling this necessity & making provision for it. But how can this force
be exerted on the States collectively. It is impossible. It amounts to a
war between the parties. Foreign powers also will not be idle
spectators. They will interpose, the confusion will increase, and a
dissolution of the Union ensue. 5. influence. he did not mean
corruption, but a dispensation of those regular honors & emoluments,
which produce an attachment to the Govt. Almost all the weight of these
is on the side of the States; and must continue so as long as the States
continue to exist. All the passions then we see, of avarice, ambition,
interest, which govern most individuals, and all public bodies, fall
into the current of the States, and do not flow in the stream of the
Genl. Govt. The former therefore will generally be an overmatch for the
Genl. Govt. and render any confederacy, in its very nature precarious.
Theory is in this case fully confirmed by experience. The Amphyctionic
Council had it would seem ample powers for general purposes. It had in
particular the power of fining and using force agst. delinquent members.
What was the consequence. Their decrees were mere signals of war. The
Phocian war is a striking example of it. Philip at length taking
advantage of their disunion, and insinuating himself into their
Councils, made himself master of their fortunes. The German Confederacy
affords another lesson. The authority of Charlemagne seemed to be as
great as could be necessary. The great feudal chiefs however, exercising
their local sovereignties, soon felt the spirit & found the means of,
encroachments, which reduced the imperial authority to a nominal
sovereignty. The Diet has succeeded, which tho' aided by a Prince at its
head, of great authority independently of his imperial attributes, is a
striking illustration of the weakness of Confederated Governments. Other
examples instruct us in the same truth. The Swiss cantons have scarce
any Union at all, and have been more than once at war with one another
-- How then are all these evils to be avoided? only by such a compleat
sovereignty in the general Governmt. as will turn all the strong
principles & passions above mentioned on its side. Does the scheme of N.
Jersey produce this effect? does it afford any substantial remedy
whatever? On the contrary it labors under great defects, and the defect
of some of its provisions will destroy the efficacy of others. It gives
a direct revenue to Congs. but this will not be sufficient. The balance
can only be supplied by requisitions: which experience proves can not be
relied on. If States are to deliberate on the mode, they will also
deliberate on the object of the supplies, and will grant or not grant as
they approve or disapprove of it. The delinquency of one will invite and
countenance it in others. Quotas too must in the nature of things be so
unequal as to produce the same evil. To what standard will you resort?
Land is a fallacious one. Compare Holland with Russia: France or Engd.
with other countries of Europe. Pena. with N. Carola. will the relative
pecuniary abilities in those instances, correspond with the relative
value of land. Take numbers of inhabitants for the rule and make like
comparison of different countries, and you will find it to be equally
unjust. The different degrees of industry and improvement in different
Countries render the first object a precarious measure of wealth. Much
depends too on situation. Cont. N. Jersey & N. Carolina, not being
commercial States & contributing to the wealth of the commercial ones,
can never bear quotas assessed by the ordinary rules of proportion. They
will & must fail in their duty, their example will be followed, and the
Union itself be dissolved. Whence then is the national revenue to be
drawn? from Commerce? even from exports which notwithstanding the common
opinion are fit objects of moderate taxation, from excise, &c &c. These
tho' not equal, are less unequal than quotas. Another destructive
ingredient in the plan, is that equality of suffrage which is so much
desired by the small States. It is not in human nature that Va. & the
large States should consent to it, or if they did that they shd. long
abide by it. It shocks too much the [4] ideas of Justice, and every
human feeling. Bad principles in a Govt. tho slow are sure in their
operation and will gradually destroy it. A doubt has been raised whether
Congs. at present have a right to keep Ships or troops in time of peace.
He leans to the negative. Mr. Ps. plan provides no remedy. -- If the
powers proposed were adequate, the organization of Congs. is such that
they could never be properly & effectually exercised. The members of
Congs. being chosen by the States & subject to recall, represent all the
local prejudices. Should the powers be found effectual, they will from
time to time be heaped on them, till a tyrannic sway shall be
established. The general power whatever be its form if it preserves
itself, must swallow up the State powers. Otherwise it will be swallowed
up by them. It is agst. all the principles of a good Government to vest
the requisite powers in such a body as Congs. Two Sovereignties can not
co-exist within the same limits. Giving powers to Congs. must eventuate
in a bad Govt. or in no Govt. The plan of N. Jersey therefore will not
do. What then is to be done? Here he was embarrassed. The extent of the
Country to be governed, discouraged him. The expence of a general Govt
was also formidable; unless there were such a diminution of expence on
the side of the State Govts. as the case would admit. If they were
extinguished, he was persuaded that great oeconomy might be obtained by
substituting a general Govt. He did not mean however to shock the public
opinion by proposing such a measure. On the other hand he saw no other
necessity for declining it. They are not necessary for any of the great
purposes of commerce, revenue, or agriculture. Subordinate authorities
he was aware would be necessary. There must be district tribunals:
corporations for local purposes. But cui bono, the vast & expensive
apparatus now appertaining to the States. The only difficulty of a
serious nature which occurred to him, was that of drawing
representatives from the extremes to the center of the Community. What
inducements can be offered that will suffice? The moderate wages for the
1st. branch would [5] only be a bait to little demagogues. Three dollars
or thereabouts he supposed would be the utmost. The Senate he feared
from a similar cause, would be filled by certain undertakers who wish
for particular offices under the Govt. This view of the subject almost
led to him despair that a Republican Govt. could be established over so
great an extent. He was sensible at the same time that it would be
unwise to propose one of any other form. In his private opinion he had
no scruple in declaring, supported as he was by the opinions of so many
of the wise & good, that the British Govt. was the best in the world:
and that he doubted much whether any thing short of it would do in
America. He hoped Gentlemen of different opinions would bear with him in
this, and begged them to recollect the change of opinion on this subject
which had taken place and was still going on. It was once thought that
the power of Congs. was amply sufficient to secure the end of their
institution. The error was now seen by every one. The members most
tenacious of republicanism, he observed, were as loud as any in
declaiming agst. the vices of democracy. This progress of the public
mind led him to anticipate the time, when others as well as himself
would join in the praise bestowed by Mr. Neckar on the British
Constitution, namely, that it is the only Govt. in the world "which
unites public strength with individual security." -- In every community
where industry is encouraged, there will be a division of it into the
few & the many. Hence separate interests will arise. There will be
debtors & creditors &c. Give all power to the many, they will oppress
the few. Give all power to the few, they will oppress the many. Both
therefore ought to have [6] power, that each may defend itself agst. the
other. To the want of this check we owe our paper money, instalment laws
&c. To the proper adjustment of it the British owe the excellence of
their Constitution. Their house of Lords is a most noble institution.
Having nothing to hope for by a change, and a sufficient interest by
means of their property, in being faithful to the national interest,
they form a permanent barrier agst. every pernicious innovation, whether
attempted on the part of the Crown or of the Commons. No temporary
Senate will have firmness eno' to answer the purpose. The Senate [of
Maryland] which seems to be so much appealed to, has not yet been
sufficiently tried. Had the people been unanimous & eager, in the late
appeal to them on the subject of a paper emission they would would have
yielded to the torrent. Their acquiescing in such an appeal is a proof
of it. -- Gentlemen differ in their opinions concerning the necessary
checks, from the different estimates they form of the human passions.
They suppose seven years a sufficient period to give the senate an
adequate firmness, from not duly considering the amazing violence &
turbulence of the democratic spirit. When a great object of Govt. is
pursued, which seizes the popular passions, they spread like wild fire,
and become irresistable. He appealed to the gentlemen from the N.
England States whether experience had not there verified the remark. --
As to the Executive, it seemed to be admitted that no good one could be
established on Republican principles. Was not this giving up the merits
of the question: for can there be a good Govt. without a good Executive.
The English model was the only good one on this subject. The Hereditary
interest of the King was so interwoven with that of the Nation, and his
personal emoluments so great, that he was placed above the danger of
being corrupted from abroad -- and at the same time was both
sufficiently independent and sufficiently controuled, to answer the
purpose of the institution at home. one of the weak sides of Republics
was their being liable to foreign influence & corruption. Men of little
character, acquiring great power become easily the tools of intermedling
Neibours. Sweeden was a striking instance. The French & English had each
their parties during the late Revolution which was effected by the
predominant influence of the former. -- What is the inference from all
these observations? That we ought to go as far in order to attain
stability and permanency, as republican principles will admit. Let one
branch of the Legislature hold their places for life or at least during
good behaviour. Let the Executive also be for life. He appealed to the
feelings of the members present whether a term of seven years, would
induce the sacrifices of private affairs which an acceptance of public
trust would require, so so as to ensure the services of the best
Citizens. On this plan we should have in the Senate a permanent will, a
weighty interest, which would answer essential purposes. But is this a
Republican Govt., it will be asked? Yes if all the Magistrates are
appointed, and vacancies are filled, by the people, or a process of
election originating with the people. He was sensible that an Executive
constituted as he proposed would have in fact but little of the power
and independence that might be necessary. On the other plan of
appointing him for 7 years, he thought the Executive ought to have but
little power. He would be ambitious, with the means of making creatures;
and as the object of his ambition wd. be to prolong his power, it is
probable that in case of a [7] war, he would avail himself of the
emergence, [8] to evade or refuse a degradation from his place. An
Executive for life has not this motive for forgetting his fidelity, and
will therefore be a safer depository of power. It will be objected
probably, that such an Executive will be an elective Monarch, and will
give birth to the tumults which characterize that form of Govt. He wd.
reply that Monarch is an indefinite term. It marks not either the degree
or duration of power. If this Executive Magistrate wd. be a monarch for
life -- the other propd. by the Report from the Comtte of the whole, wd.
be a monarch for seven years. The circumstance of being elective was
also applicable to both. It had been observed by judicious writers that
elective monarchies wd. be the best if they could be guarded agst. the
tumults excited by the ambition and intrigues of competitors. He was not
sure that tumults were an inseparable evil. He rather thought this
character of Elective Monarchies had been taken rather from particular
cases than from general principles. The election of Roman Emperors was
made by the Army. In Poland the election is made by great rival princes
with independent power, and ample means, of raising commotions. In the
German Empire, the appointment is made by the Electors & Princes, who
have equal motives & means, for exciting cabals & parties. Might not
such a mode of election be devised among ourselves as will defend the
community agst. these effects in any dangerous degree? Having made these
observations he would read to the Committee a sketch of a plan which he
shd. prefer to either of those under consideration. He was aware that it
went beyond the ideas of most members. But will such a plan be adopted
out of doors? In return he would ask will the people adopt the other
plan? At present they will adopt neither. But he sees the Union
dissolving or already dissolved -- he sees evils operating in the States
which must soon cure the people of their fondness for democracies -- he
sees that a great progress has been already made & is still going on in
the public mind. He thinks therefore that the people will in time be
unshackled from their prejudices; and whenever that happens, they will
themselves not be satisfied at stopping where the plan of Mr. R. wd.
place them, but be ready to go as far at least as he proposes. He did
not mean to offer the paper he had sketched as a proposition to the
Committee. It was meant only to give a more correct view of his ideas,
and to suggest the amendments which he should probably propose to the
plan of Mr. R. in the proper stages of its future discussion. He read
[9] his sketch in the words following: towit

I. "The Supreme Legislative power of the United States of America to be
vested in two different bodies of men; the one to be called the
Assembly, the other the Senate who together shall form the Legislature
of the United States with power to pass all laws whatsoever subject to
the Negative hereafter mentioned.

II. The Assembly to consist of persons elected by the people to serve
for three years.

III. The Senate to consist of persons elected to serve during good
behaviour; their election to be made by electors chosen for that purpose
by the people: in order to this the States to be divided into election
districts. On the death, removal or resignation of any Senator his place
to be filled out of the district from which he came.

IV. The supreme Executive authority of the United States to be vested in
a Governour to be elected to serve during good behaviour -- the election
to be made by Electors chosen by the people in the Election Districts
aforesaid -- The authorities & functions of the Executive to be as
follows: to have a negative on all laws about to be passed, and the
execution of all laws passed, to have the direction of war when
authorized or begun; to have with the advice and approbation of the
Senate the power of making all treaties; to have the sole appointment of
the heads or chief officers of the departments of Finance, War and
Foreign Affairs; to have the nomination of all other officers
(Ambassadors to foreign Nations included) subject to the approbation or
rejection of the Senate; to have the power of pardoning all offences
except Treason; which he shall not pardon without the approbation of the
Senate.

V. On the death, resignation or removal of the Governour his authorities
to be exercised by the President of the Senate till a Successor be
appointed.

VI. The Senate to have the sole power of declaring war, the power of
advising and approving all Treaties, the power of approving or rejecting
all appointments of officers except the heads or chiefs of the
departments of Finance War and foreign affairs.

VII. The supreme Judicial authority to be vested in Judges to hold their
offices during good behaviour with adequate and permanent salaries. This
Court to have original jurisdiction in all causes of capture, and an
appellative jurisdiction in all causes in which the revenues of the
general Government or the Citizens of foreign Nations are concerned.

VIII. The Legislature of the United States to have power to institute
Courts in each State for the determination of all matters of general
concern.

IX. The Governour Senators and all officers of the United States to be
liable to impeachment for mal- and corrupt conduct; and upon conviction
to be removed from office, & disqualified for holding any place of trust
or profit -- All impeachments to be tried by a Court to consist of the
Chief or Judge of the superior Court of Law of each State, provided such
Judge shall hold his place during good behavior, and have a permanent
salary.

X. All laws of the particular States contrary to the Constitution or
laws of the United States to be utterly void; and the better to prevent
such laws being passed, the Governour or president of each State shall
be appointed by the General Government and shall have a negative upon
the laws about to be passed in the State of which he is [10] Governour
or President.

XI. No State to have any forces land or Naval; and the Militia of all
the States to be under the sole and exclusive direction of the United
States, the officers of which to be appointed and commissioned by them.

On these several articles he entered into explanatory observations [11]
corresponding with the principles of his introductory reasoning.

[12] Committee rose & the House Adjourned.

___________

1. The word "not" is blotted in the notes but is retained because it is
in the transcript.

2. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

3. The word "a" is here inserted in the transcript.

4. The word "all" is substituted in the transcript for "the."

5. The word "could" is substituted in the transcript for "would."

6. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

7. The word "a" is omitted in the transcript.

8. The word "emergence" is changed to "emergency" in the transcript.

9. The word "reads" is substituted in the transcript for "read."

10. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

11. In the transcript the following footnote was inserted with reference
mark after "observations": "The speech introducing the plan, as above
taken down & written out was seen by Mr. Hamilton, who approved its
correctness, with one or two verbal changes, which were made as he
suggested. The explanatory observations which did not immediately
follow, were to have been furnished by Mr. H. who did not find leisure
at the time to write them out, and they were not obtained. "Judge Yates,
in his notes, appears to have consolidated the explanatory with the
introductory observations of Mr. Hamilton (under date of June 19th, a
typographical error). It was in the former, Mr. Madison observed, that
Mr. Hamilton, in speaking of popular governments, however modified, made
the remark attributed to him by Judge Yates, that they were 'but pork
still with a little change of sauce.'"

12. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.


