THURSDAY  MAY 31 [1]

William Pierce from Georgia took his seat.

In Committee of the whole on Mr. Randolph's propositions.

The 3d. Resolution "that the national Legislature ought to consist of
two branches" was agreed to without debate or dissent, except that of
Pennsylvania, given probably from complaisance to Docr. Franklin who was
understood to be partial to a single House of Legislation.

Resol: 4. [2] first clause "that the members of the first branch of the
National Legislature ought to be elected by the people of the several
States" being taken up,

Mr. SHERMAN opposed the election by the people, insisting that it ought
to be by the State Legislatures. The people he said, immediately should
have as little to do as may be about the Government. They want
information and are constantly liable to be misled.

Mr. GERRY. The evils we experience flow from the excess of democracy.
The people do not want virtue, but are the dupes of pretended patriots.
In Massts. it had been fully confirmed by experience that they are daily
misled into the most baneful measures and opinions by the false reports
circulated by designing men, and which no one on the spot can refute.
One principal evil arises from the want of due provision for those
employed in the administration of Governmt. It would seem to be a maxim
of democracy to starve the public servants. He mentioned the popular
clamour in Massts. for the reduction of salaries and the attack made on
that of the Govr. though secured by the spirit of the Constitution
itself. He had he said been too republican heretofore: he was still
however republican, but had been taught by experience the danger of the
levilling spirit.

Mr. MASON, argued strongly for an election of the larger branch by the
people. It was to be the grand depository of the democratic principle of
the Govtt. It was, so to speak, to be our House of Commons -- It ought
to know & sympathise with every part of the community; and ought
therefore to be taken not only from different parts of the whole
republic, but also from different districts of the larger members of it,
which had in several instances particularly in Virga., different
interests and views arising from difference of produce, of habits &c &c.
He admitted that we had been too democratic but was afraid we sd.
incautiously run into the opposite extreme. We ought to attend to the
rights of every class of the people. He had often wondered at the
indifference of the superior classes of society to this dictate of
humanity & policy; considering that however affluent their
circumstances, or elevated their situations, might be, the course of a
few years, not only might but certainly would, distribute their
posterity throughout the lowest classes of Society. Every selfish motive
therefore, every family attachment, ought to recommend such a system of
policy as would provide no less carefully for the rights and happiness
of the lowest than of the highest orders of Citizens.

Mr. WILSON contended strenuously for drawing the most numerous branch of
the Legislature immediately from the people. He was for raising the
federal pyramid to a considerable altitude, and for that reason wished
to give it as broad a basis as possible. No government could long
subsist without the confidence of the people. In a republican Government
this confidence was peculiarly essential. He also thought it wrong to
increase the weight of the State Legislatures by making them the
electors of the national Legislature. All interference between the
general and local Governmts. should be obviated as much as possible. On
examination it would be found that the opposition of States to federal
measures had proceded much more from the officers of the States, than
from the people at large.

Mr. MADISON considered the popular election of one branch of the
National Legislature as essential to every plan of free Government. He
observed that in some of the States one branch of the Legislature was
composed of men already removed from the people by an intervening body
of electors. That if the first branch of the general legislature should
be elected by the State Legislatures, the second branch elected by the
first -- the Executive by the second together with the first; and other
appointments again made for subordinate purposes by the Executive, the
people would be lost sight of altogether; and the necessary sympathy
between them and their rulers and officers, too little felt. He was an
advocate for the policy of refining the popular appointments by
successive filtrations, but though it might be pushed too far. He wished
the expedient to be resorted to only in the appointment of the second
branch of the Legislature, and in the Executive & judiciary branches of
the Government. He thought too that the great fabric to be raised would
be more stable and durable, if it should rest on the solid foundation of
the people themselves, than if it should stand merely on the pillars of
the Legislatures.

Mr. GERRY did not like the election by the people. The maxims taken from
the British constitution were often fallacious when applied to our
situation which was extremely different. Experience he said had shewn
that the State legislatures drawn immediately from the people did not
always possess their confidence. He had no objection however to an
election by the people if it were so qualified that men of honor &
character might not be unwilling to be joined in the appointments. He
seemed to think the people might nominate a certain number out of which
the State legislatures should be bound to choose.

Mr. BUTLER thought an election by the people an impracticable mode.

On the question for an election of the first branch of the national
Legislature by the people.

Massts. ay. Connect. divd. N. York ay. N. Jersey no. Pena. ay. Delawe.
divd. Va. ay. N. C. ay. S. C. no. Georga. ay.

The remaining Clauses of Resolution 4th. [3] relating to the
qualifications of members of the National Legislature, [3] being pospd.
nem. con., as entering too much into detail for general propositions:

The Committee proceeded to Resolution 5. [4] "that the second, [or
senatorial] branch of the National Legislature ought to be chosen by the
first branch out of persons nominated by the State Legislatures."

Mr. SPAIGHT contended that the 2d. branch ought to be chosen by the
State Legislatures and moved an amendment to that effect. Mr. BUTLER
apprehended that the taking so many powers out of the hands of the
States as was proposed, tended to destroy all that balance and security
of interests among the States which it was necessary to preserve; and
called on Mr. Randolph the mover of the propositions, to explain the
extent of his ideas, and particularly the number of members he meant to
assign to this second branch.

Mr. RAND observed that he had at the time of offering his propositions
stated his ideas as far as the nature of general propositions required;
that details made no part of the plan, and could not perhaps with
propriety have been introduced. If he was to give an opinion as to the
number of the second branch, he should say that it ought to be much
smaller than that of the first; so small as to be exempt from the
passionate proceedings to which numberous assemblies are liable. He
observed that the general object was to provide a cure for the evils
under which the U. S. laboured; that in tracing these evils to their
origin every man had found it in the turbulence and follies of
democracy: that some check therefore was to be sought for agst. this
tendency of our Governments: and that a good Senate seemed most likely
to answer the purpose.

Mr. KING reminded the Committee that the choice of the second branch as
proposed (by Mr. Spaight) viz. by the State Legislatures would be
impracticable, unless it was to be very numerous, or the idea of
proportion among the States was to be disregarded. According to this
idea, there must be 80 or 100 members to entitle Delaware to the choice
of one of them. -- Mr. SPAIGHT withdrew his motion.

Mr. WILSON opposed both a nomination by the State Legislatures, and an
election by the first branch of the national Legislature, because the
second branch of the latter, ought to be independent of both. He thought
both branches of the National Legislature ought to be chosen by the
people, but was not prepared with a specific proposition. He suggested
the mode of chusing the Senate of N. York to wit of uniting several
election districts, for one branch, in chusing members for the other
branch, as a good model.

Mr. MADISON observed that such a mode would destroy the influence of the
smaller States associated with larger ones in the same district; as the
latter would chuse from within themselves, altho' better men might be
found in the former. The election of Senators in Virga. where large &
small counties were often formed into one district for the purpose, had
illustrated this consequence Local partiality, would often prefer a
resident within the County or State, to a candidate of superior merit
residing out of it. Less merit also in a resident would be more known
throughout his own State.

Mr. SHERMAN favored an election of one member by each of the State
Legislatures.

Mr. PINKNEY moved to strike out the "nomination by the State
Legislatures." On this question.

[*5] Massts. no. Cont. no. N. Y. no. N. J. no. Pena. no. Del divd. Va.
no. N. C. no. S. C. no. Georg no. [6]

On the whole question for electing by the first branch out of
nominations by the State Legislatures, Mass. ay. Cont. no. N. Y. no. N.
Jersey. no. Pena. no. Del. no. Virga. ay. N. C. no. S. C. ay. Ga. no.
[7]

So the clause was disagreed to & a chasm left in this part of the plan. 

[8] The sixth Resolution stating the cases in which the national
Legislature ought to legislate was next taken into discussion: On the
question whether each branch shd. originate laws, there was an unanimous
affirmative without debate. On the question for transferring all the
Legislative powers of the existing Congs. to this Assembly, there was
also a silent affirmative nem. con.

On the proposition for giving "Legislative power in all cases to which
the State Legislatures were individually incompetent."

Mr. PINKNEY & Mr. RUTLEDGE objected to the vagueness of the term
incompetent, and said they could not well decide how to vote until they
should see an exact enumeration of the powers comprehended by this
definition. 

Mr. BUTLER repeated his fears that we were running into an extreme in
taking away the powers of the States, and called on Mr. Randolp for the
extent of his meaning.

Mr. RANDOLPH disclaimed any intention to give indefinite powers to the
national Legislature, declaring that he was entirely opposed to such an
inroad on the State jurisdictions, and that he did not think any
considerations whatever could ever change his determination. His opinion
was fixed on this point.

Mr. MADISON said that he had brought with him into the Convention a
strong bias in favor of an enumeration and definition of the powers
necessary to be exercised by the national Legislature; but had also
brought doubts concerning its practicability. His wishes remained un
ltered; but his doubts had become stronger. What his opinion might
ultimately be he could not yet tell. But he should shrink from nothing
which should be found essential to such a form of Govt. as would provide
for the safety, liberty and happiness of the community. This being the
end of all our deliberations, all the necessary means for attaining it
must, however reluctantly, be submitted to.

On the question for giving powers, in cases to which the States are not
competent, Massts. ay. Cont. divd. [Sharman no Elseworth ay] N. Y. ay.
N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Va. ay. N. C. ay. S. Carolina ay. Georga. ay.
[9]

The other clauses [10] giving powers necessary to preserve harmony among
the States to negative all State laws contravening in the opinion of the
Nat. Leg. the articles of union, down to the last clause, (the words "or
any treaties subsisting under the authority of the Union," being added
after the words "contravening &c. the articles of the Union," on motion
of Dr. FRANKLIN) were agreed to witht. debate or dissent. The last
clause of Resolution 6. [11] authorizing an exertion of the force of the
whole agst. a delinquent State came next into consideration.

Mr. MADISON, observed that the more he reflected on the use of force,
the more he doubted the practicability, the justice and the efficacy of
it when applied to people collectively and not individually. -- A union
of the States containing such an ingredient seemed to provide for its
own destruction. The use of force agst. a State, would look more like a
declaration of war, than an infliction of punishment, and would probably
be considered by the party attacked as a dissolution of all previous
compacts by which it might be bound. He hoped that such a system would
be framed as might render this recourse [12] unnecessary, and moved that
the clause be postponed. This motion was agreed to nem. con.

The Committee then rose & the House

Adjourned

___________

1. The year "1787" is here inserted in the transcript.

2. The transcript changes "Resol: 4." to "The fourth Resolution."

3. In the transcript the words "Resolution 4th" are changed to "the
fourth Resolution" and the phrase "the qualifications of members of the
National Legislature" is italicized."

4. In the transcript the words "Resolution 5," are changed to "the fifth
Resolution" and the words of the resolution are italicized.

*5. This question [6] omitted in the printed Journal, & the votes applied
to the succeeding one, instead of the votes as here stated [this note to
be in the bottom margin]. [6]

6. In the transcript the vote reads: "*Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, no -- 9; Delaware divided"; and Madison's direction
concerning the footnote is omitted. The word "is" is inserted after the
word "question."

7. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Virginia, South
Carolina, aye -- 3; Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, North Carolina, Georgia, no -- 7."

8. In this paragraph the transcript italicizes the following phrases:
"the cases in which the national Legislature ought to legislate,"
"whether each branch shd. originate laws," "for transferring all the
Legislative powers of the existing Cong. to this Assembly"; and the
phrase "a silent affirmative nem. con." is changed to "an unanimous
affirmative, without debate."

9. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, New York, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 9; Connecticut divided (Sherman, no.
Ellsworth, aye)." 

10. The phrase, "giving powers necessary to preserve harmony among the
States to negative all State laws contravening in the opinion of the
Nat. Leg. the articles of union" is italicized in the transcript. 

11. The words "the sixth Resolution" are substituted in the transcript
for "resolution 6" and the phrase "authorizing and exertion of the force
of the whole agst. a delinquent State" is italicized.

12. The word "resource" is substituted in the transcript for "recourse."


