MONDAY SEPr 17, 1787: [1] IN CONVENTION

The engrossed Constitution being read,

DOCr. FRANKLIN rose with a speech in his hand, which he had reduced to
writing for his own conveniency, [2] and which Mr. Wilson read in the
words following.

Mr. President

I confess that there are several parts of this constitution which I do
not at present approve, but I am not sure I shall never approve them:
For having lived long, I have experienced many instances of being
obliged by better information, or fuller consideration, to change
opinions even on important subjects, which I once thought right, but
found to be otherwise. It is therefore that the older I grow, the more
apt I am to doubt my own judgment, and to pay more respect to the
judgment of others. Most men indeed as well as most sects in Religion,
think themselves in possession of all truth, and that wherever others
differ from them it is so far error. Steele a Protestant in a Dedication
tells the Pope, that the only difference between our Churches in their
opinions of the certainty of their doctrines is, the Church of Rome is
infallible and the Church of England is never in the wrong. But though
many private persons think almost as highly of their own infallibility
as of that of their sect, few express it so naturally as a certain
french lady, who in a dispute with her sister, said "I don't know how it
happens, Sister but I meet with no body but myself, that's always in the
right -- Il n'y a que moi qui a toujours raison."

In these sentiments, Sir, I agree to this Constitution with all its
faults, if they are such; because I think a general Government necessary
for us, and there is no form of Government but what may be a blessing to
the people if well administered, and believe farther that this is likely
to be well administered for a course of years, and can only end in
Despotism, as other forms have done before it, when the people shall
become so corrupted as to need despotic Government, being incapable of
any other. I doubt too whether any other Convention we can obtain, may
be able to make a better Constitution. For when you assemble a number of
men to have the advantage of their joint wisdom, you inevitably assemble
with those men, all their prejudices, their passions, their errors of
opinion, their local interests, and their selfish views. From such an
assembly can a perfect production be expected? It therefore astonishes
me, Sir, to find this system approaching so near to perfection as it
does; and I think it will astonish our enemies, who are waiting with
confidence to hear that our councils are confounded like those of the
Builders of Babel; and that our States are on the point of separation,
only to meet hereafter for the purpose of cutting one another's throats.
Thus I consent, Sir, to this Constitution because I expect no better,
and because I am not sure, that it is not the best. The opinions I have
had of its errors, I sacrifice to the public good. I have never
whispered a syllable of them abroad. Within these walls they were born,
and here they shall die. If every one of us in returning to our
Constituents were to report the objections he has had to it, and
endeavor to gain partizans in support of them, we might prevent its
being generally received, and thereby lose all the salutary effects &
great advantages resulting naturally in our favor among foreign Nations
as well as among ourselves, from our real or apparent unanimity. Much of
the strength & efficiency of any Government in procuring and securing
happiness to the people, depends, on opinion, on the general opinion of
the goodness of the Government, as well as well as of the wisdom and
integrity of its Governors. I hope therefore that for our own sakes as a
part of the people, and for the sake of posterity, we shall act heartily
and unanimously in recommending this Constitution (if approved by
Congress & confirmed by the Conventions) wherever our influence may
extend, and turn our future thoughts & endeavors to the means of having
it well administred.

On the whole, Sir, I can not help expressing a wish that every member of
the Convention who may still have objections to it, would with me, on
this occasion doubt a little of his own infallibility, and to make
manifest our unanimity, put his name to this instrument. -- 

He then moved that the Constitution be signed by the members and offered
the following as a convenient form viz. "Done in Convention by the
unanimous consent of the States present the 17th. of Sepr. &c -- In
Witness whereof we have hereunto subscribed our names."

This ambiguous form had been drawn up by Mr. G. M. in order to gain the
dissenting members, and put into the hands of Docr. Franklin that it
might have the better chance of success.

Mr. GORHAM said if it was not too late he could wish, for the purpose of
lessening objections to the Constitution, that the clause declaring "the
number of Representatives shall not exceed one for every forty thousand"
which had produced so much discussion, might be yet reconsidered, in
order to strike out 40,000 & insert "thirty thousand." This would not he
remarked establish that as an absolute rule, but only give Congress a
greater latitude which could not be thought unreasonable.

Mr. KING & Mr. CARROL seconded & supported the idea of Mr. Gorham.

When the PRESIDENT rose, for the purpose of putting the question, he
said that although his situation had hitherto restrained him from
offering his sentiments on questions depending in the House, and it
might be thought, ought now to impose silence on him, yet he could not
forbear expressing his wish that the alteration proposed might take
place. It was much to be desired that the objections to the plan
recommended might be made as few as possible. The smallness of the
proportion of Representatives had been considered by many members of the
Convention an insufficient security for the rights & interests of the
people. He acknowledged that it had always appeared to himself among the
exceptionable parts of the plan, and late as the present moment was for
admitting amendments, he thought this of so much consequence that it
would give [3] much satisfaction to see it adopted [*4]

No opposition was made to the proposition of Mr. Gorham and it was
agreed to unanimously.

On the question to agree to the Constitution enrolled in order to be
signed. It was agreed to all the States [6] answering ay.

Mr. RANDOLPH then rose and with an allusion to the observations of Docr.
Franklin apologized for his refusing to sign the Constitution
notwithstanding the vast majority & venerable names that would give
sanction to its wisdom and its worth. He said however that he did not
mean by this refusal to decide that he should oppose the Constitution
without doors. He meant only to keep himself free to be governed by his
duty as it should be prescribed by his future judgment. He refused to
sign, because he thought the object of the Convention would be
frustrated by the alternative which it presented to the people. Nine
States will fail to ratify the plan and confusion must ensue. With such
a view of the subject he ought not, he could not, by pledging himself to
support the plan, restrain himself from taking such steps as might
appear to him most consistent with the public good.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS said that he too had objections, but considering the
present plan as the best that was to be attained, he should take it with
all its faults. The majority had determined in its favor and by that
determination he should abide. The moment this plan goes forth all other
considerations will be laid aside, and the great question will be, shall
there be a national Government or not? and this must take place or a
general anarchy will be the alternative. He remarked that the signing in
the form proposed related only to the fact that the [7] States present
were unanimous.

Mr. WILLIAMSON suggested that the signing should be confined to the
letter accompanying the Constitution to Congress, which might perhaps do
nearly as well, and would he found be [8] satisfactory to some members
[*9] who disliked the Constitution. For himself he did not think a
better plan was to be expected and had no scruples against putting his
name to it.

Mr. HAMILTON expressed his anxiety that every member should sign. A few
characters of consequence, by opposing or even refusing to sign the
Constitution, might do infinite mischief by kindling the latent sparks
which [10] lurk under an enthusiasm in favor of the Convention which may
soon subside. No man's ideas were more remote from the plan than his
[11] were known to be; but is it possible to deliberate between anarchy
and Convulsion on one side, and the chance of good to be expected from
the plan on the other.

Mr. BLOUNT said he had declared that he would not sign, so as to pledge
himself in support of the plan, but he was relieved by the form proposed
and would without committing himself attest the fact that the plan was
the unanimous act of the States in Convention.

DOCr. FRANKLIN expressed his fears from what Mr. Randolph had said, that
he thought himself alluded to in the remarks offered this morning to the
House. He declared that when drawing up that paper he did not know that
any particular member would refuse to sign his name to the instrument,
and hoped to be so understood. He professed a high sense of obligation
to Mr. Randolph for having brought forward the plan in the first
instance, and for the assistance he had given in its progress, and hoped
that he would yet lay aside his objections, and by concurring with his
brethren, prevent the great mischief which the refusal of his name might
produce.

Mr. RANDOLPH could not but regard the signing in the proposed form, as
the same with signing the Constitution. The change of form therefore
could make no difference with him. He repeated that in refusing to sign
the Constitution, he took a step which might be the most awful of his
life, but it was dictated by his conscience, and it was not possible for
him to hesitate, much less, to change. He repeated also his persuasion,
that the holding out this plan with a final alternative to the people,
of accepting or rejecting it in toto, would really produce the anarchy &
civil convulsions which were apprehended from the refusal of individuals
to sign it.

Mr. GERRY described the painful feelings of his situation, and the
embarrassment [12] under which he rose to offer any further observations
on the subject wch. had been finally decided. Whilst the plan was
depending, he had treated it with all the freedom he thought it
deserved. He now felt himself bound as he was disposed to treat it with
the respect due to the Act of the Convention. He hoped he should not
violate that respect in declaring on this occasion his fears that a
Civil war may result from the present crisis of the U. S. In
Massachussetts, particularly he saw the danger of this calamitous event
-- In that State there are two parties, one devoted to Democracy, the
worst he thought of all political evils, the other as violent in the
opposite extreme. From the collision of these in opposing and resisting
the Constitution, confusion was greatly to be feared. He had thought it
necessary, for this & other reasons that the plan should have been
proposed in a more mediating shape, in order to abate the heat and
opposition of parties. As it has been passed by the Convention, he was
persuaded it would have a contrary effect. He could not therefore by
signing the Constitution pledge himself to abide by it at all events.
The proposed form made no difference with him. But if it were not
otherwise apparent, the refusals to sign should never be known from him.
Alluding to the remarks of Docr. Franklin, he could not he said but view
them as levelled at himself and the other gentlemen who meant not to
sign;

Genl. PINKNEY. We are not likely to gain many converts by the ambiguity
of the proposed form of signing. He thought it best to be candid and let
the form speak the substance. If the meaning of the signers be left in
doubt, his purpose would not be answered. He should sign the
Constitution with a view to support it with all his influence, and
wished to pledge himself accordingly.

DOCr. FRANKLIN. It is too soon to pledge ourselves before Congress and
our Constituents shall have approved the plan.

Mr. INGERSOL did not consider the signing, either as a mere attestation
of the fact, or as pledging the signers to support the Constitution at
all events; but as a recommendation, of what, all things considered, was
the most eligible.

On the motion of Docr. Franklin

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay. N.
C. ay. S. C. divd. [*13] Geo. ay. [15]

Mr. KING suggested that the Journals of the Convention should be either
destroyed, or deposited in the custody of the President. He thought if
suffered to be made public, a bad use would be made of them by those who
would wish to prevent the adoption of the Constitution.

Mr. WILSON prefered the second expedient, he had at one time liked the
first best; but as false suggestions may be propagated it should not be
made impossible to contradict them.

A question was then put on depositing the Journals and other papers of
the Convention in the hands of the President, on which,

N. H. ay. Mtts. ay. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pena. ay. Del. ay. Md. [*18] no.
Va. ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [19]

The President having asked what the Convention meant should be done with
the Journals &c, whether copies were to be allowed to the members if
applied for. It was Resolved nem: con "that he retain the Journal and
other papers, subject to the order of the [22] Congress, if ever formed
under the Constitution.

The members then proceeded to sign the instrument. [23]

[24] Whilst the last members were signing it [25] Doctr. FRANKLIN
looking towards the Presidents Chair, at the back of which a rising sun
happened to be painted, observed to a few members near him, that
Painters had found it difficult to distinguish in their art a rising
from a setting sun. I have said he, often and often in the course of the
Session, and the vicisitudes of my hopes and fears as to its issue,
looked at that behind the President without being able to tell whether
it was rising or setting: But now at length I have the happiness to know
that it is a rising and not a setting Sun

[24] The Constitution being signed by all the members except Mr.
Randolph, Mr. Mason, and Mr. Gerry who declined giving it the sanction
of their names, the Convention dissolved itself by an Adjournment sine
die -- 

[26] The few alterations and corrections made in these debates which are
not in my hand writing, were dictated by me and made in my presence by
John C. Payne.

JAMES MADISON.

___________

1. The year "1787" is omitted in the transcript.

2. The word "conveniency" is changed in the transcript to "convenience."

3. The word "him" is here inserted in the transcript.

*4. Transfer the remarks in brackets, to the bottom margin. [5] [This
was the only occasion on which the President entered at all into the
discussions of the Convention].

5. Madison's direction is omitted in the transcript.

6. The word "States" is italicized in the transcript.

7. The transcript italicizes the word "the."

8. The words "be found" are substituted in the transcript for "the found
be."

*9. He alluded to Mr. Blount for one.

10. The word "which" is changed in the transcript to "that."

11. The word "own" is here inserted in the transcript.

12. The transcript uses the word "embarrassment" in the plural.

*13. Genl. Pinkney & Mr Butler disliked the equivocal form of the [14]
signing, and on that account voted in the negative.

14. The word "the" is omitted in the transcript.

15. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia,
North Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 10; South Carolina, [*16] divided."

*16. To be transferred hither. [17]

17. Madison's direction concerning his note is omitted in the transcript.

*18. This negative of Maryland was occasioned by the language of the
instructions to the Deputies of that State, which required them to
report to the State, the proceedings of the Convention.

19. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 10; Maryland, [20] no -- 1."

20. Transfer. [21]

21. Madison's direction concerning his note is omitted in the transcript.

22. The word "the" is omitted in the transcript.

23. In place of the word "instrument," the transcript inserts the
following words: "Constitution, as finally amended, as follows." The
Constitution is then inserted.

24. These two final paragraphs of Madison's notes are transposed in the
transcript to follow the signatures to the Constitution.

25. The word "it" is omitted in the transcript.

26. This statement and Madison's signature are omitted in the
transcript.


