THURSDAY  AUGUST 16.   IN CONVENTION

Mr. RANDOLPH having thrown into a new form the motion, putting votes,
Resolutions &c. on a footing with Bills, renewed it as follows "Every
order resolution or vote, to which the concurrence of the Senate & House
of Reps. may be necessary (except on a question of adjournment and in
the cases hereinafter mentioned) shall be presented to the President for
his revision; and before the same shall have force shall be approved by
him, or being disapproved by him shall be repassed by the Senate & House
of Reps. according to the rules & limitations prescribed in the case of
a Bill."

Mr. SHERMAN thought it unnecessary, except as to votes taking money out
of the Treasury which might be provided for in another place.

On [1] Question as moved by Mr. Randolph [2]

N. H. ay. Mas: not present, Ct. ay. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay.
Va. ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [3]

The Amendment was made a Section 14. of Art VI.

Art: VII. Sect. 1. [4, 5] taken up.

Mr. L. MARTIN asked what was meant by the Committee of detail in the
expression "duties" and "imposts." If the meaning were the same, the
former was unnecessary; if different, the matter ought to be made clear.

Mr. WILSON, duties are applicable to many objects to which the word
imposts does not relate. The latter are appropriated to commerce; the
former extend to a variety of objects, as stamp duties &c.

Mr. CARROLL reminded the Convention of the great difference of interests
among the States, and doubts the propriety in that point of view of
letting a majority be a quorum.

Mr. MASON urged the necessity of connecting with the power of levying
taxes duties &c, the prohibition in Sect 4 of art VI that no tax should
be laid on exports. He was unwilling to trust to its being done in a
future article. He hoped the Northn. States did not mean to deny the
Southern this security. It would hereafter be as desirable to the former
when the latter should become the most populous. He professed his
jealousy for the productions of the Southern or as he called them, the
staple States. He moved to insert the following amendment "provided that
no tax duty or imposition shall be laid by the Legislature of the U.
States on articles exported from any State"

Mr. SHERMAN had no objection to the proviso here, other than [6] it
would derange the parts of the report as made by the Committee, to take
them in such an order.

Mr. RUTLIDGE. It being of no consequence in what order points are
decided, he should vote for the clause as it stood, but on condition
that the subsequent part relating to negroes should also be agreed to.

Mr. GOVERNEUR MORRIS considered such a proviso as inadmissible any
where. It was so radically objectionable, that it might cost the whole
system the support of some members. He contended that it would not in
some cases be equitable to tax imports without taxing exports; and that
taxes on exports would be often the most easy and proper of the two.

Mr. MADISON 1. [7] the power of taxing [8] exports is proper in itself,
and as the States can not with propriety exercise it separately, it
ought to be vested in them collectively. 2. [7] it might with particular
advantage be exercised with regard to articles in which America was not
rivalled in foreign markets, as Tobo. &c. The contract between the
French Farmers Genl. and Mr. Morris stipulating that if taxes sd. be
laid in America on the export of Tobo. they sd. be paid by the Farmers,
shewed that it was understood by them, that the price would be thereby
raised in America, and consequently the taxes be paid by the European
Consumer. 3. [9] it would be unjust to the States whose produce was
exported by their neighbours, to leave it subject to be taxed by the
latter. This was a grievance which had already filled N. H. Cont. N.
Jery. Del: and N. Carolina with loud complaints, as it related to
imports, and they would be equally authorised by taxes by the States on
exports. 4. [9] The Southn. States being most in danger and most needing
naval protection, could the less complain if the burden should be
somewhat heaviest on them. 5. [10] we are not providing for the present
moment only, and time will equalize the situation of the States in this
matter. He was for these reasons agst. the motion

Mr. WILLIAMSON considered the clause proposed agst. taxes on exports as
reasonable and necessary.

Mr. ELSEWORTH was agst. Taxing exports; but thought the prohibition
stood in the most proper place, and was agst. deranging the order
reported by the Committee

Mr. WILSON was decidedly agst. prohibiting general taxes on exports. He
dwelt on the injustice and impolicy of leaving N. Jersey Connecticut &c
any longer subject to the exactions of their commercial neighbours.

Mr. GERRY thought the legislature could not be trusted with such a
power. It might ruin the Country. It might be exercised partially,
raising one and depressing another part of it.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. However the legislative power may be formed, it will
if disposed be able to ruin the Country. He considered the taxing of
exports to be in many cases highly politic. Virginia has found her
account in taxing Tobacco. All Countries having peculiar articles tax
the exportation of them; as France her wines and brandies. A tax here on
lumber, would fall on the W. Indies & punish their restrictions on our
trade. The same is true of live stock and in some degree of flour. In
case of a dearth in the West Indies, we may extort what we please. Taxes
on exports are a necessary source of revenue. For a long time the people
of America will not have money to pay direct taxes. Seize and sell their
effects and you push them into Revolts.

Mr. MERCER was strenuous against giving Congress power to tax exports.
Such taxes were [11] impolitic, as encouraging the raising of articles
not meant for exportation. The States had now a right where their
situation permitted, to tax both the imports and exports of their
uncommercial neighbours. It was enough for them to sacrifice one half of
it. It had been said the Southern States had most need of naval
protection. The reverse was the case. Were it not for promoting the
carrying trade of the Northn. States, the Southn. States could let their
trade go into foreign bottoms, where it would not need our protection.
Virginia by taxing her tobacco had given an advantage to that of
Maryland.

Mr. SHERMAN. To examine and compare the States in relation to imports
and exports will be opening a boundless field. He thought the matter had
been adjusted, and that imports were to be subject, and exports not, to
be taxed. He thought it wrong to tax exports except it might be such
articles as ought not to be exported. The complexity of the business in
America would render an equal tax on exports impracticable. The
oppression of the uncommercial States was guarded agst. by the power to
regulate trade between the States. As to compelling foreigners, that
might be done by regulating trade in general. The Government would not
be trusted with such a power. Objections are most likely to be excited
by considerations relating to taxes & money. A power to tax exports
would shipwreck the whole.

Mr. CARROL was surprised that any objection should be made to an
exception of exports from the power of taxation.

It was finally agreed that the question concerning exports shd. lie over
for the place in which the exception stood in the report: Maryd. alone
voting agst. it

Sect: 1. [art. VII] [12, 13] agreed to: Mr. GERRY alone answering no.

[14] Clause for regulating commerce with foreign nations &c.; [15]
agreed to nem. con.
[16] for coining money. agd. to nem. con.
[16] for regulating foreign coin. do. do.
[16] for fixing the standard of weights & measures. do. do.
[17] "To establish post-offices." Mr. GERRY moved to add, and
post-roads. 

Mr. MERCER 2ded. & on [18] question

N. H. no. Mas. ay. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pena. no. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay.
N. C. no. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [19]

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved to strike out "and emit bills on the credit of
the U. States" -- If the United States had credit such bills would be
unnecessary: if they had not, unjust & useless.

Mr. BUTLER, 2ds. the motion.

Mr. MADISON, will it not be sufficient to prohibit the making them a
tender? This will remove the temptation to emit them with unjust views.
And promissory notes in that shape may in some emergencies be best.

Mr. Govr. MORRIS. striking out the words will leave room still for notes
of a responsible minister which will do all the good without the
mischief. The Monied interest will oppose the plan of Government, if
paper emissions be not prohibited.

Mr. GHORUM was for striking out, without inserting any prohibition. if
the words stand they may suggest and lead to the measure.

Col. [20] MASON had doubts on the subject. Congs. he thought would not
have the power unless it were expressed. Though he had a mortal hatred
to paper money, yet as he could not foresee all emergences, he was
unwilling to tie the hands of the Legislature. He observed that the late
war could not have been carried on, had such a prohibition existed.

Mr. GHORUM. The power as far as it will be necessary or safe, is
involved in that of borrowing.

Mr. MERCER was a friend to paper money, though in the present state &
temper of America, he should neither propose nor approve of such a
measure. He was consequently opposed to a prohibition of it altogether.
It will stamp suspicion on the Government to deny it a discretion on
this point. It was impolitic also to excite the opposition of all those
who were friends to paper money. The people of property would be sure to
be on the side of the plan, and it was impolitic to purchase their
further attachment with the loss of the opposite class of Citizens

Mr. ELSEWORTH thought this a favorable moment to shut and bar the door
against paper money. The mischiefs of the various experiments which had
been made, were now fresh in the public mind and had excited the disgust
of all the respectable part of America. By witholding the power from the
new Governt. more friends of influence would be gained to it than by
almost any thing else. Paper money can in no case be necessary. Give the
Government credit, and other resources will offer. The power may do
harm, never good.

Mr. RANDOLPH, notwithstanding his antipathy to paper money, could not
agree to strike out the words, as he could not foresee all the occasions
which [21] might arise.

Mr. WILSON. It will have a most salutary influence on the credit of the
U. States to remove the possibility of paper money. This expedient can
never succeed whilst its mischiefs are remembered, and as long as it can
be resorted to, it will be a bar to other resources. 

Mr. BUTLER. remarked that paper was a legal tender in no Country in
Europe. He was urgent for disarming the Government of such a power.

Mr. MASON was still averse to tying the hands of the Legislature
altogether. If there was no example in Europe as just remarked, it might
be observed on the other side, that there was none in which the
Government was restrained on this head.

Mr. READ, thought the words, if not struck out, would be as alarming as
the mark of the Beast in Revelations.

Mr. LANGDON had rather reject the whole plan than retain the three words
"(and emit bills")

On the motion for striking out

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct ay. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. no. Va. ay.
[*23] N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [22]

The clause for borrowing money, [25] agreed to nem. con.

Adjd.

___________

1. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

2. The phrase "it was agreed to" is here inserted in the transcript.

3. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Connecticut,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 9; New Jetsey, no -- 1; Massachusetts, not
present."

4. See ante.

5. The words "was then" are here in inserted in the transcript.

6. The word "that" is here inserted in the transcript.

7. The figures "1" and "2" are changed in the transcript to "First" and
"Secondly."

8. The words "laying taxes on" are substituted in the transcript for
"taxing."

9. The figures "3" and "4" are changed in the transcript to Thirdly" and
"Fourthly."

10. The figure "5" is changed in the transcript to "And finally."

11. The word "are" is substituted in the transcript for "were."

12. This phrase was erroncously copied in the transcript as "Article 1,
Section 1," but was corrected when printed.

13. The words "was then" are here inserted in the transcript.

14. The word "The" is here inserted in the transcript.

15. The word "was" is here inserted in the transcript.

16. In the transcript these three lines are changed to read as follows:
"Several clauses, -- for coining money -- for regulating foreign coin,
-- for fixing the standard of weights and measures, -- were agreed to,
nem. Con."

17. The words "The clause" are here inserted in the transcript.

18. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

19. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Delaware,
Maryland, Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 6; New Hampshire,
Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, no -- 5."

20. The word "Mr." is substituted in the transcript for "Col."

21. The word "that" is substituted in the transcript for "which."

22. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Virginia, [*23] North Carolina,
South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 9; New Jersey, Maryland, no -- 2."

*23. This vote in the affirmative by Virga. was occasioned by the
acquiescence of Mr. Madison who became satisfied that striking out the
words would not disable the Govt. from the use of public notes as far as
they could be safe & proper; & would only cut off the pretext for a
paper currency, [24] and particularly for making the bills a tender [24]
either for public or private debts.

24. The transcript italicizes the words "paper currency" and "a tender."

25. The word "was" is here inserted in the transcript.


