THURSDAY  JUNE 21.   IN CONVENTION

Mr. Jonathan Dayton from N. Jersey took his seat. [*1]

[3] DOCr. JOHNSON. On a comparison of the two plans which had been
proposed from Virginia & N. Jersey, it appeared that the peculiarity
which characterized the latter was its being calculated to preserve the
individuality of the States. The plan from Va. did not profess to
destroy this individuality altogether, but was charged with such a
tendency. One Gentleman alone (Col. Hamilton) in his animadversions on
the plan of N. Jersey, boldly and decisively contended for an abolition
of the State Govts. Mr. Wilson & the gentlemen from Virga. who also were
adversaries of the plan of N. Jersey held a different language. They
wished to leave the States in possession of a considerable, tho' a
subordinate jurisdiction. They had not yet however shewn how this cd.
consist with, or be secured agst. the general sovereignty &
jurisdiction, which they proposed to give to the national Government. If
this could be shewn in such a manner as to satisfy the patrons of the N.
Jersey propositions, that the individuality of the States would not be
endangered, many of their objections would no doubt be removed. If this
could not be shewn their objections would have their full force. He
wished it therefore to be well considered whether in case the States, as
was proposed, shd. retain some portion of sovereignty at least, this
portion could be preserved, without allowing them to participate
effectually in the Genl. Govt., without giving them each a distinct and
equal vote for the purpose of defending themselves in the general
Councils.

Mr. WILSON's respect for Docr. Johnson, added to the importance of the
subject led him to attempt, unprepared as he was, to solve the
difficulty which had been started. It was asked how the Genl. Govt. and
individuality of the particular States could be reconciled to each
other; and how the latter could be secured agst the former? Might it
not, on the other side be asked how the former was to be secured agst.
the latter? It was generally admitted that a jealousy & rivalship would
be felt between the Genl. & particular Govts. As the plan now stood,
tho' indeed contrary to his opinion, one branch of the Genl. Govt. (the
Senate or second branch) was to be appointed by the State Legislatures.
The State Legislatures, therefore, by this participation in the Genl.
Govt. would have an opportunity of defending their rights. Ought not a
reciprocal opportunity to be given to the Genl. Govt. of defending
itself by having an appointment of some one constituent branch of the
State Govts. If a security be necessary on one side, it wd. seem
reasonable to demand it on the other. But taking the matter in a more
general view, he saw no danger to the States from the Genl. Govt. In
case a combination should be made by the large ones it wd. produce a
general alarm among the rest; and the project wd. be frustrated. But
there was no temptation to such a project. The States having in general
a similar interest, in case of any proposition [4] in the National
Legislature to encroach on the State Legislatures, he conceived a
general alarm wd. take place in the National Legislature itself, that it
would communicate itself to the State Legislatures, and wd. finally
spread among the people at large. The Genl. Govt. will be as ready to
preserve the rights of the States as the latter are to preserve the
rights of individuals; all the members of the former, having a common
interest, as representatives of all the people of the latter, to leave
the State Govts. in possession of what the people wish them to retain.
He could not discover, therefore any danger whatever on the side from
which it had been [5] apprehended. On the contrary, he conceived that in
spite of every precaution the general Govt. would be in perpetual danger
of encroachments from the State Govts.

Mr. MADISON was of the opinion [6] that there was 1. less danger of
encroachment from the Genl. Govt. than from the State Govts. 2. [7] that
the mischief from encroachments would be less fatal if made by the
former, than if made by the latter. 1. All the examples of other
confederacies prove the greater tendency in such systems to anarchy than
to tyranny; to a disobedience of the members than to [8] usurpations of
the federal head. Our own experience had fully illustrated this
tendency. -- But it will be said that the proposed change in the
principles & form of the Union will vary the tendency; that the Genl.
Govt. will have real & greater powers, and will be derived in one branch
at least from the people, not from the Govts. of the States. To give
full force to this objection, let it be supposed for a moment that
indefinite power should be given to the Genl. Legislature, and the
States reduced to corporations dependent on the Genl. Legislature; Why
shd. it follow that the Genl. Govt. wd. take from the States any branch
of their power as far as its operation was beneficial, and its
continuance desireable to the people? In some of the States,
particularly in Connecticut, all the Townships are incorporated, and
have a certain limited jurisdiction. Have the Representatives of the
people of the Townships in the Legislature of the State ever endeavored
to despoil the Townships of any part of their local authority? As far as
this local authority is convenient to the people they are attached to
it; and their representatives chosen by & amenable to them naturally
respect their attachment to this, as much as their attachment to any
other right or interest. The relation of a General Govt. to State Govts.
is parallel. 2. Guards were more necessary agst. encroachments of the
State Govts. on the Genl. Govt. than of the latter on the former. The
great objection made agst. an abolition of the State Govts. was that the
Genl. Govt. could not extend its care to all the minute objects which
fall under the cognizance of the local jurisdictions. The objection as
stated lay not agst. the probable abuse of the general power, but agst.
the imperfect use that could be made of it throughout so great an extent
of country, and over so great a variety of objects. As far as as its
operation would be practicable it could not in this view be improper; as
far as it would be impracticable, the conveniency [9] of the Genl. Govt.
itself would concur with that of the people in the maintenance of
subordinate Governments. Were it practicable for the Genl. Govt. to
extend its care to every requisite object without the cooperation of the
State Govts. the people would not be less free as members of one great
Republic than as members of thirteen small ones. A Citizen of Delaware
was not more free than a Citizen of Virginia: nor would either be more
free than a Citizen of America. Supposing therefore a tendency in the
Genl. Government to absorb the State Govts. no fatal [10] consequence
could result. Taking the reverse of [11] the supposition, that a
tendency should be left in the State Govts. towards an independence on
the General Govt. and the gloomy consequences need not be pointed out.
The imagination of them, must have suggested to the States the
experiment we are now making to prevent the calamity, and must have
formed the chief motive with those present to undertake the arduous
task. On the question for resolving "that the Legislature ought to
consist of two Branches"

Mass. ay. Cont. ay. N. Y. no. N. Jersey no Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. divd.
Va. ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [12]

The third resolution of the Report [13] taken into consideration.

Genl. PINKNEY moved "that the 1st. branch, instead of being elected by
the people, shd. be elected in such manner as the Legislature of each
State should direct." He urged 1. [14] that this liberty would give more
satisfaction, as the Legislatures could then accomodate the mode to the
conveniency [15] & opinions of the people. 2. [14] that it would avoid
the undue influence of large Counties which would prevail if the
elections were to be made in districts as must be the mode intended by
the Report of the Committee. 3. [14] that otherwise disputed elections
must be referred to the General Legislature which would be attended with
intolerable expence and trouble to the distant parts of the republic.

Mr. L. MARTIN seconded the Motion.

Col. HAMILTON considered the motion as intended manifestly to transfer
the election from the people to the State Legislatures, which would
essentially vitiate the plan. It would increase that State influence
which could not be too watchfully guarded agst. All too must admit the
possibility, in case the Genl. Govt. shd. maintain itself, that the
State Govts. might gradually dwindle into nothing. The system therefore
shd. not be engrafted on what might possibly fail.

Mr. MASON urged the necessity of retaining the election by the people.
Whatever inconveniency [16] may attend the democratic principle, it must
actuate one part of the Govt. It is the only security for the rights of
the people.

Mr. SHERMAN, would like an election by the Legislatures best, but is
content with [17] plan as it stands.

Mr. RUTLIDGE could not admit the solidity of the distinction between a
mediate & immediate election by the people. It was the same thing to act
by oneself, and to act by another. An election by the Legislature would
be more refined than an election immediately by the people: and would be
more likely to correspond with the sense of the whole community. If this
Convention had been chosen by the people in districts it is not to be
supposed that such proper characters would have been preferred. The
Delegates to Congs. he thought had also been fitter men than would have
been appointed by the people at large.

Mr. WILSON considered the election of the 1st. branch by the people not
only as the corner Stone, but as the foundation of the fabric: and that
the difference between a mediate & immediate election was immense. The
difference was particularly worthy of notice in this respect: that the
Legislatures are actuated not merely by the sentiment of the people; but
have an official sentiment opposed to that of the Genl. Govt. and
perhaps to that of the people themselves.

Mr. KING enlarged on the same distinction. He supposed the Legislatures
wd. constantly choose men subservient to their own views as contrasted
to the general interest; and that they might even devise modes of
election that wd. be subversive of the end in view. He remarked several
instances in which the views of a State might be at variance with those
of the Genl. Govt.: and mentioned particularly a competition between the
National & State debts, for the most certain & productive funds.

Genl. PINKNEY was for making the State Govts. a part of the General
System. If they were to be abolished, or lose their agency, S. Carolina
& other States would have but a small share of the benefits of Govt.

On the question for Genl. Pinkney motion to substitute election of [18]
1st. branch in such mode as the Legislatures should appoint, in stead of
its being elected by the people."

Massts. no. Cont. ay. N. Y. no. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. divd. Va.
no. N. C. no. S. C. ay Geo. no. [19]

General PINKNEY then moved that the 1st. branch be elected by the people
in such mode as the Legislatures should direct; but waved it on its
being hinted that such a provision might be more properly tried in the
detail of the plan.

On the question for ye. election of the 1st. branch by the people."

Massts. ay. Cont. ay. N. Y. ay. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. divd. Va.
ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay Geo. ay. [20]

[18] Election of the 1st. branch "for the term of three years," [21]
considered

Mr. RANDOLPH moved to strike out, "three years" and insert "two years"
-- he was sensible that annual elections were a source of great
mischiefs in the States, yet it was the want of such checks agst. the
popular intemperence as were now proposed, that rendered them so
mischievous. He would have preferred annual to biennial, but for the
extent of the U. S. and the inconveniency [22] which would result from
them to the representatives of the extreme parts of the Empire. The
people were attached to frequency of elections. All the Constitutions of
the States except that of S. Carolina, had established annual elections.

Mr. DICKENSON. The idea of annual elections was borrowed from the
antient usage of England, a country much less extensive than ours. He
supposed biennial would be inconvenient. He preferred triennial: and in
order to prevent the inconveniency [22] of an entire change of the whole
number at the same moment, suggested a rotation, by an annual election
of one third.

Mr. ELSEWORTH was opposed to three years, supposing that even one year
was preferable to two years. The people were fond of frequent elections
and might be safely indulged in one branch of the Legislature. He moved
for 1 year.

Mr. STRONG seconded & supported the motion.

Mr. WILSON being for making the 1st. branch an effectual representation
of the people at large, preferred an annual election of it. This
frequency was most familiar & pleasing to the people. It would be not
[23] more inconvenient to them, than triennial elections, as the people
in all the States have annual meetings with which the election of the
National representatives might be made to co-incide. He did not conceive
that it would be necessary for the Natl. Legisl: to sit constantly;
perhaps not half -- perhaps not one fourth of the year.

Mr. MADISON was persuaded that annual elections would be extremely
inconvenient and apprehensive that biennial would be too much so: he did
not mean inconvenient to the electors; but to the representatives. They
would have to travel seven or eight hundred miles from the distant parts
of the Union; and would probably not be allowed even a reimbursement of
their expences. Besides, none of those who wished to be re-elected would
remain at the seat of Governmt.; confiding that their absence would not
affect them. The members of Congs. had done this with few instances of
disappointment. But as the choice was here to be made by the people
themselves who would be much less complaisant to individuals, and much
more susceptible of impressions from the presence of a Rival candidate,
it must be supposed that the members from the most distant States would
travel backwards & forwards at least as often as the elections should be
repeated. Much was to be said also on the time requisite for new members
who would always form a large proportion, to acquire that knowledge of
the affairs of the States in general without which their trust could not
be usefully discharged.

Mr. SHERMAN preferred annual elections, but would be content with
biennial. He thought the Representatives ought to return home and mix
with the people. By remaining at the seat of Govt. they would acquire
the habits of the place which might differ from those of their
Constituents.

Col. MASON observed that the States being differently situated such a
rule ought to be formed as would put them as nearly as possible on a
level. If elections were annual the middle States would have a great
advantage over the extreme ones. He wished them to be biennial; and the
rather as in that case they would coincide with the periodical elections
of S. Carolina as well of the other States.

Col. HAMILTON urged the necessity of 3 years. There ought to be neither
too much nor too little dependence, on the popular sentiments. The
checks in the other branches of Governt. would be but feeble, and would
need every auxiliary principle that could be interwoven. The British
House of Commons were elected septennially, yet the democratic spirit of
ye. Constitution had not ceased. Frequency of elections tended to make
the people listless to them; and to facilitate the success of little
cabals. This evil was complained of in all the States. In Virga. it had
been lately found necessary to force the attendance & voting of the
people by severe regulations.

On the question for striking out "three years"

Massts. ay. Cont. ay. N. Y. no. N. J. divd. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. no. Va.
ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [24]

The motion for "two years" was then inserted nem. con.

Adjd.

___________

*1. From June 21 to July 18 inclusive not copied by Mr. Eppes. [2]

2. This footnote is omitted in the transcript. It refers to a copy of
Madison's journal made by John W. Eppes, Jefferson's son-in-law, for
Jefferson's use some time between 1799 and 1810. The Writings of James
Madison, Hunt, Editor, Vol. VI (1906), 329, n; Documentary History of
the Constitution, Vol. V (1905), 294-296.

3. The transcript here inserts the following: "The second Resolution in
the Report from the Committee of the Whole, being under consideration."

4. The transcript uses the word "proposition" in the plural.

5. The word "was" is substituted in the transcript for "had been."

6. The phrase "in the first place" is here inserted in the transcript
and the figure "1" is omitted.

7. The figure "2" is changed to "and in the second place" in the
transcript.

8. The word "to" is omitted in the transcript.

9. The word "conveniency" is changed to "convenience" in the transcript.

10. The transcript italicizes the word "fatal."

11. The word "as" is substituted in the transcript for "of".

12. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut,
Pennsylvania, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye --
7; New York, New Jersey, Delaware, no -- 3; Maryland, divided."

13. The word "being" is here inserted in the transcript.

14. The figures "1," "2" and "3" are changed to "first," "secondly" and
"thirdly" in the transcript.

15. The word "conveniency" is changed to "convenience" in the
transcript.

16. The word "inconveniency" is changed to "inconvenience" in the
transcript.

17. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

18. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

19. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New Jersey,
Delaware, South Carolina, aye -- 4; Massachusetts, New York,
Pennsylvania, Virginia, North Carolina, Georgia, no -- 6; Maryland,
divided."

20. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
York, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina,
Georgia, aye -- 9; New Jersey, no -- 1; Maryland, divided."

21. The word "being" is here inserted in the transcript.

22. The word "inconveniency" is changed to "inconvenience" in the
transcript.

23. The words "be not" are transposed to read "not be" in the
transcript.

24. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut,
Pennsylvania, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye --
7; New York, Delaware, Maryland, no -- 3; New Jersey, divided."


