FRIDAY  JULY 13.   IN CONVENTION

It being moved to postpone the clause in the Report of the Committee of
Eleven as to the originating of money bills in the [1] first branch, in
order to take up the following "that in the 2d. branch each State shall
have an equal voice."

Mr. GERRY, moved to add as an amendment to the last clause agreed to by
the House, "that from the first meeting of the Legislature of the U. S.
till a census shall be taken all monies to be raised for supplying the
public Treasury by direct taxation, shall be assessed on the inhabitants
of the several States according to the number of their Representatives
respectively in the 1st. branch." He said this would be as just before
as after the Census: according to the general principle that taxation &
Representation ought to go together.

Mr. WILLIAMSON feared that N. Hamshire will have reason to complain. 3
members were allotted to her as a liberal allowance, for this reason
among others, that she might not suppose any advantage to have been
taken of her absence. As she was still absent, and had no opportunity of
deciding whether she would chuse to retain the number on the condition,
of her being taxed in proportion to it, he thought the number ought to
be reduced from three to two, before the question [2] on Mr. G's motion.

Mr. READ could not approve of the proposition. He had observed he said
in the Committee a backwardness in some of the members from the large
States, to take their full proportion of Representatives. He did not
then see the motive. He now suspects it was to avoid their due share of
taxation. He had no objection to a just & accurate adjustment of
Representation & taxation to each other.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS & Mr. MADISON answered that the charge itself involved
an acquittal, since notwithstanding the augmentation of the number of
members allotted to Masts. & Va. the motion for proportioning the
burdens thereto was made by a member from the former State & was
approved by Mr-M from the latter who was on the Come. Mr. Govr. Morris
said that he thought Pa. had her due share in 8 members; and he could
not in candor ask for more. Mr. M. said that having always conceived
that the difference of interest in the U, States lay not between the
large & small, but the N. & Southn. States, and finding that the number
of members allotted to the N. States was greatly superior, he should
have preferred, an addition of two members to the S. States, to wit one
to N. & 1 to S. Carla. rather than of one member to Virga. He liked the
present motion, because it tended to moderate the views both of the
opponents & advocates for rating very high, the negroes.

Mr. ELSEWORTH hoped the proposition would be withdrawn. It entered too
much into detail. The general principle was already sufficiently
settled. As fractions can not be regarded in apportioning the No. of
representatives, the rule will be unjust, until an actual census shall
be made. After that taxation may be precisely proportioned according to
the principle established, to the number of inhabitants.

Mr. WILSON hoped the motion would not be withdrawn. If it shd. it will
be made from another quarter. The rule will be as reasonable & just
before, as after a Census. As to fractional numbers, the Census will not
distroy, but ascertain them. And they will have the same effect after as
before the Census: for as he understands the rule, it is to be adjusted
not to the number of inhabitants, but of Representatives.

Mr. SHERMAN opposed the motion. He thought the Legislature ought to be
left at liberty: in which case they would probably conform to the
principles observed by Congs.

Mr. MASON did not know that Virga. would be a loser by the proposed
regulation, but had some scruple as to the justice of it. He doubted
much whether the conjectural rule which was to precede the Census, would
be as just, as it would be rendered by an actual census.

Mr. ELSEWORTH & Mr. SHERMAN moved to postpone the motion of Mr. Gerry,
on ye. question, it passed in the negative. Mas. no. Cont. ay. N. J. ay.
Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va.no. N.C.no. S.C.no. Geo.no. [3]

[4] Question on Mr. Gerry's motion; it passed in the negative, the
States being equally divided. 

Mas.ay. Cont.no. N. J. no. Pa.ay. Del.no. Md.no. Va. no. N.C.ay. S.C.ay.
Geo.ay. [5]

Mr. GERRY finding that the loss of the question had proceeded from an
objection with some, to the proposed assessment of direct taxes on the
inhabitants of the States, which might restrain the Legislature to a
poll tax, moved his proposition again, but so varied as to authorise the
assessment on the States, which wd. leave [6] the mode to the
Legislature, at this caret insert the words interlined [7] viz "that
from the 1st. meeting of the Legislature of the U. S. untill a census
shall be taken, all monies for supplying the public Treasury by direct
taxation shall be raised from the said several States according to the
number of their representatives respectively in the 1st. branch."

On this varied question, it passed in the affirmative

Mas.ay. Cont.no. N.J.no. Pa.divd. Del.no. Md.no. va.ay. N.C.ay. S.C.ay.
Geo.ay. [8]

On the motion of Mr. Randolph, the vote of Saturday [9] last authorising
the Legislre. to adjust from time to time, the representation upon the
principles of wealth & numbers of inhabitants was reconsidered by common
consent in order to strike out "Wealth" [10] and adjust the resolution
to that requiring periodical revisions according to the number of whites
& three fifths of the blacks: the motion was in the words following --
"But as the present situation of the States may probably alter in the
number of their inhabitants, that the Legislature of the U. S. be
authorized from time to time to apportion the number of representatives:
and in case any of the States shall hereafter be divided or any two or
more States united or new States created within the limits of the U. S.
the Legislature of [11] U. S. shall possess authority to regulate the
number of Representatives in any of the foregoing cases, upon the
principle of their number of inhabitants; according to the provisions
hereafter mentioned."

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS opposed the alteration as leaving still an incoherence.
If Negroes were to be viewed as inhabitants, and the revision was to
proceed on the principle of numbers of inhabts. they ought to be added
in their entire number, and not in the proportion of 3/5 . If as
property, the word wealth was right, and striking it out, would produce
the very inconsistency which it was meant to get rid of. -- The train of
business & the late turn which it had taken, had led him he said, into
deep meditation on it, and He wd. candidly state the result. A
distinction had been set up & urged, between the Nn. & Southn. States.
He had hitherto considered this doctrine as heretical. He still thought
the distinction groundless. He sees however that it is persisted in, and
that the Southn. Gentlemen will not be satisfied unless they see the way
open to their gaining a majority in the public Councils. The consequence
of such a transfer of power from the maritime to the interior & landed
interest will he foresees be such an oppression of [12] commerce, that
he shall be obliged to vote for ye. vicious principle of equality in the
2d. branch in order to provide some defence for the N. States agst. it.
But to come more to the point; either this distinction is fictitious or
real; if fictitious let it be dismissed & let us proceed with due
confidence. If it be real, instead of attempting to blend incompatible
things, let us at once take a friendly leave of each other. There can be
no end of demands for security if every particular interest is to be
entitled to it. The Eastern States may claim it for their fishery, and
for other objects, as the Southn. States claim it for their peculiar
objects. In this struggle between the two ends of the Union, what part
ought the middle States in point of policy to take: to join their
Eastern brethren according to his ideas. If the Southn. States get the
power into their hands, and be joined as they will be with the interior
Country, they will inevitably bring on a war with Spain for the
Mississippi. This language is already held. the interior Country having
no property nor interest exposed on the sea, will be little affected by
such a war. He wished to know what security the Northn. & middle States
will have agst. this danger. It has been said that N. C. S. C., and
Georgia only will in a little time have a majority of the people of
America. They must in that case include the great interior Country, and
every thing was to be apprehended from their getting the power into
their hands.

Mr. BUTLER. The security the Southn. States want is that their negroes
may not be taken from them, which some gentlemen within or without
doors, have a very good mind to do. It was not supposed that N. C. S. C.
& Geo. would have more people than all the other States, but many more
relatively to the other States than they now have. The people & strength
of America are evidently bearing Southwardly & S. westwdly.

Mr. WILSON. If a general declaration would satisfy any gentleman he had
no indisposition to declare his sentiments. Conceiving that all men
wherever placed have equal rights and are equally entitled to
confidence, he viewed without apprehension the period when a few States
should contain the superior number of people. The majority of people
wherever found ought in all questions to govern the minority. If the
interior Country should acquire this majority, it will not only have the
right, but will avail themselves [13] of it whether we will or no. This
jealousy misled the policy of G. Britain with regard to America. The
fatal maxims espoused by her were that the Colonies were growing too
fast, and that their growth must be stinted in time. What were the
consequences? first. enmity on our part, then actual separation. Like
consequences will result on the part of the interior settlements, if
like jealousy & policy be pursued on ours. Further, if numbers be not a
proper rule, why is not some better rule pointed out. No one has yet
ventured to attempt it. Congs. have never been able to discover a
better. No State as far as he had heard, has suggested any other. In
1783, after elaborate discussion of a measure of wealth all were
satisfied then as they are now that the rule of numbers, does not differ
much from the combined rule of numbers & wealth. Again he could not
agree that property was the sole or the [14] primary object of Governt.
& society. The cultivation & improvement of the human mind was the most
noble object. With respect to this object, as well as to other personal
rights, numbers were surely the natural & precise measure of
Representation. And with respect to property, they could not vary much
from the precise measure. In no point of view however could the
establishmt. of numbers as the rule of representation in the 1st. branch
vary his opinion as to the impropriety of letting a vicious principle
into the 2d. branch. -- On the Question to strike out wealth, & to make
the change as moved by Mr. Randolph, it passed in the affirmative -- 

Mas. ay. Cont. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. divd. Md. ay. Va. ay. N. C.
ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [15]

Mr. REED moved to insert after the word -- "divided," "or enlarged by
addition of territory" which was agreed to nem. con. [his object
probably was to provide for such cases as an enlargemt. of Delaware by
annexing to it the Peninsula on the East side of [16] Chesapeak]

Adjourned

___________

1. The word "the" is not italicized in the transcript.

2. The words "was taken" are here inserted in the transcript.

3. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware,
Maryland, aye -- 4; Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 6."

4. The words "On the" are here inserted in the transcript.

5. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, North
Carolina, South Carolina. Georgia, aye -- 5; Connecticut, New Jersey,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, no -- 5."

6. The word "leaves" is substituted in the transcript for "wd. leave."

7. Madison's direction concerning the interlined words is omitted in the
transcript.

8. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 5; Connecticut, New Jersey,
Delaware, Maryland, no -- 4; Pennsylvania, divided."

9. The word "Saturday" is changed to "Monday" in the transcript.

10. The transcript italicizes the word "Wealth."

11. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

12. The word "to" is substituted in the transcript for "of."

13. The word "itself" is substituted in the transcript for "themselves."

14. The word "the" is omitted in the transcript.

15. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 9; Delaware, divided."

16. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript; and the sentence
in brackets is a footnote.


