MONDAY  AUGst 13.   IN CONVENTION

Art. IV. Sect. 2 [1, 2] reconsidered -- 

Mr. WILSON & Mr. RANDOLPH moved to strike out "7 years" and insert "4
years," as the requisite term of Citizenship to qualify for the House of
Reps. Mr. Wilson said it was very proper the electors should govern
themselves by this consideration; but unnecessary & improper that the
Constitution should chain them down to it.

Mr. GERRY wished that in future the eligibility might be confined to
Natives. Foreign powers will intermeddle in our affairs, and spare no
expence to influence them. Persons having foreign attachments will be
sent among us & insinuated into our councils, in order to be made
instruments for their purposes. Every one knows the vast sums laid out
in Europe for secret services. He was not singular in these ideas. A
great many of the most influencial men in Massts. reasoned in the same
manner.

Mr. WILLIAMSON moved to insert 9 years instead of seven. He wished this
Country to acquire as fast as possible national habits. Wealthy
emigrants do more harm by their luxurious examples, than good, by the
money, they bring with them.

Col. HAMILTON was in general agst. embarrassing the Govt. with minute
restrictions. There was on one side the possible danger that had been
suggested. On the other side, the advantage of encouraging foreigners
was obvious & admitted. Persons in Europe of moderate fortunes will be
fond of coming here where they will be on a level with the first
Citizens. He moved that the section be so altered as to require merely
citizenship & inhabitancy. The right of determining the rule of
naturalization will then leave a discretion to the Legislature on this
subject which will answer every purpose.

Mr. MADISON seconded the motion. He wished to maintain the character of
liberality which had been professed in all the Constitutions &
publications of America. He wished to invite foreigners of merit &
republican principles among us. America was indebted to emigrations for
her settlement & Prosperity. That part of America which had encouraged
them most had advanced most rapidly in population, agriculture & the
arts. There was a possible danger he admitted that men with foreign
predilections might obtain appointments but it was by no means probable
that it would happen in any dangerous degree. For the same reason that
they would be attached to their native Country, our own people wd.
prefer natives of this Country to them. Experience proved this to be the
case. Instances were rare of a foreigner being elected by the people
within any short space after his coming among us. If bribery was to be
practised by foreign powers, it would not be attempted among the
electors but among the elected; and among natives having full Confidence
of the people not among strangers who would be regarded with a jeoulous
eye.

Mr. WILSON, cited Pennsylva. as a proof of the advantage of encouraging
emigrations. It was perhaps the youngest [except Georgia] settlemt. on
the Atlantic; yet it was at least among the foremost in population &
prosperity. He remarked that almost all the Genl. officers of the Pena.
line of the late army were foreigners. And no complaint had ever been
made against their fidelity or merit. Three of her deputies to the
Convention [Mr. R. Morris, Mr. Fitzimmons & himself] were also not
natives. He had no objection to Col. Hamiltons motion & would withdraw
the one made by himself.

Mr. BUTLER was strenuous agst. admitting foreigners into our public
Councils.

[3] Question on Col. Hamilton's Motion

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [4]

[3] Question on Mr. Williamson's moution to insert 9 years instead of
seven.

N. H. ay. Masts. no. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no.
N. C. no. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [5]

Mr. WILSON's renewed the motion for 4 years instead of 7. & on [6]
question

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [7]

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved to add to the end of the section [art IV. S. 2] a
proviso that the limitation of seven years should not affect the rights
of any person now a Citizen.

Mr. MERCER 2ded. the motion. It was necessary he said to prevent a
disfranchisement of persons who had become Citizens under and on [8] the
faith & according to the laws & Constitution from being on a [9] level
in all respects with natives.

Mr. RUTLIDGE. It might as well be said that all qualifications are
disfranchisemts. and that to require the age of 25 years was a
disfranchisement. The policy of the precaution was as great with regard
to foreigners now Citizens; as to those who are to be naturalized in
future.

Mr. SHERMAN. The U. States have not invited foreigners nor pledged their
faith that they should enjoy equal privileges with native Citizens. The
Individual States alone have done this. The former therefore are at
liberty to make any discriminations they may judge requisite.

Mr. GHORUM. When foreigners are naturalized it wd. seem as if they stand
on an equal footing with natives. He doubted then the propriety of
giving a retrospective force to the restriction.

Mr. MADISON animadverted on the peculiarity of the doctrine of Mr.
Sharman. It was a subtilty by which every national engagement might be
evaded. By parity of reason, wherever our public debts, or foreign
treaties become inconvenient nothing more would be necessary to relieve
us from them, than to new [10] model the Constitution. It was said that
the U. S. as such have not pledged their faith to the naturalized
foreigners, & therefore are not bound. Be it so, & that the States alone
are bound. Who are to form the New Constitution by which the condition
of that class of citizens is to be made worse than the other class? Are
not the States ye. Agents? will they not be the members of it? Did they
not appoint this Convention? Are not they to ratify its proceedings?
Will not the new Constitution be their Act? If the new Constitution then
violates the faith pledged to any description of people will not the
makers of it, will not the States, be the violators. To justify the
doctrine it must be said that the States can get rid of their [11]
obligation by revising the Constitution, though they could not do it by
repealing the law under which foreigners held their privileges. He
considered this a matter of real importance. It woud expose us to the
reproaches of all those who should be affected by it, reproaches which
wd. soon be ecchoed from the other side of the Atlantic; and would
unnecessarily enlist among the Adversaries of the reform a very
considerable body of Citizens: We should moreover reduce every State to
the dilemma of rejecting it or of violating the faith pledged to a part
of its Citizens.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS considered the case of persons under 25 years, [12] as
very different from that of foreigners. No faith could be pleaded by the
former in bar of the regulation. No assurance had ever been given that
persons under that age should be in all cases on a level with those
above it. But with regard to foreigners among us, the faith had been
pledged that they should enjoy the privileges of Citizens. If the
restriction as to age had been confined to natives, & had left
foreigners under 25 years, [12] eligible in this case, the
discrimination wd. have been an equal injustice on the other side.

Mr. PINKNEY remarked that the laws of the States had varied much the
terms of naturalization in different parts of America; and contended
that the U. S. could not be bound to respect them on such an occasion as
the present. It was a sort of recurrence to first principles.

Col. MASON was struck not like [Mr. Madison] with the peculiarity, but
the propriety of the doctrine of Mr. Sharman. The States have formed
different qualifications themselves, for enjoying different rights of
citizenship. Greater caution wd. be necessary in the ouset of the Govt.
than afterwards. All the great objects wd. be then [13] provided for.
Everything would be then set in Motion. If persons among us attached to
G. B. should work themselves into our Councils, a turn might be given to
our affairs & particularly to our Commercial regulations which might
have pernicious consequences. The great Houses of British Merchants will
spare no pains to insinuate the instruments of their views into the
Govt.

Mr. WILSON read the clause in the Constitution of Pena. giving to
foreigners after two years residence all the rights whatsoever of
citizens, combined it with the article of Confederation making the
Citizens of one State Citizens of all, inferred the obligation Pena. was
under to maintain the faith thus pledged to her citizens of foreign
birth, and the just complaints which her failure would authorize: He
observed likewise that the Princes & States of Europe would avail
themselves of such breach of faith to deter their subjects from
emigrating to the U. S.

Mr. MERCER enforced the same idea of a breach of faith.

Mr. BALDWIN could not enter into the force of the arguments agst.
extending the disqualification to foreigners now Citizens. The
discrimination of the place of birth, was not more objectionable than
that of age which all had concurred in the propriety of.

[14] Question on the proviso of Mr. Govr. Morris in favor of foreigners
now Citizens

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. no. Maryd. ay. Va. ay.
N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [15]

Mr. CARROL moved to insert "5 years" instead "of seven," in Section 2d.
Art: IV

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. no. Pa. divd. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay.
N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [16]

The Section [Art IV. Sec. 2.] as formerly amended was then agreed to
nem. con.

Mr. WILSON moved that [in Art: V. Sect. 3. [17]] 9 years be reduced to
seven, which was disagd. to and the 3d. section [Art. V.] confirmed by
the following vote.

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. no. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. no. Va. ay. N.
C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [18]

Art. IV. Sec 5. [19] being reconsidered.

Mr. RANDOLPH moved that the clause be altered so as to read -- "Bills
for raising money for the purpose of revenue or for appropriating the
same shall originate in the House of Representatives and shall not be so
amended or altered by the Senate as to increase or diminish the sum to
be raised, or change the mode of levying it, or the objects of its
appropriation." -- He would not repeat his reasons, but barely remind
the members from the smaller States of the compromise by which the
larger States were entitled to this privilege.

Col. MASON. This amendment removes all the objections urged agst. the
section as it stood at first. By specifying purposes of revenue, it
obviated the objection that the Section extended to all bills under
which money might incidentally arise. By authorising amendments in the
Senate it got rid of the objections that the Senate could not correct
errors of any sort, & that it would introduce into the House of Reps.
the practice of tacking foreign matter to money bills. These objections
being removed, the arguments in favor of the proposed restraint on the
Senate ought to have their full force. 1. [20] the Senate did not
represent the people, but the States in their political character. It
was improper therefore that it should tax the people. The reason was the
same agst. their doing it; as it had been agst. Congs. doing it. [21]
Nor was it in any respect necessary in order to cure the evils of our
Republican system. He admitted that notwithstanding the superiority of
the Republican form over every other, it had its evils. The chief ones,
were the danger of the majority oppressing the minority, and the
mischievous influence of demagogues. The Genl. Government of itself will
cure these. [22] As the States will not concur at the same time in their
unjust & oppressive plans, the General Govt. will be able to check &
defeat them, whether they result from the wickedness of the majority, or
from the misguidance of demagogues. Again, the Senate is not like the H.
of Reps. chosen frequently and obliged to return frequently among the
people. They are to be chosen by the Sts for 6 years, will probably
settle themselves at the seat of Govt. will pursue schemes for their own
aggrandizement -- will be able by wearyg. out the H. of Reps. and taking
advantage of their impatience at the close of a long Session, to extort
measures for that purpose. If they should be paid as he expected would
be yet determined & wished to be so, out of the Natl. Treasury, they
will particularly extort an increase of their wages. A bare negative was
a very different thing from that of originating bills. The practice in
Engld. was in point. The House of Lords does not represent nor tax the
people, because not elected by the people. If the Senate can originate,
they will in the recess of the Legislative Sessions, hatch their
mischievous projects, for their own purposes, and have their money bills
ready [23] cut & dried, (to use a common phrase) for the meeting of the
H. of Reps. He compared the case to Poyning's law -- and signified that
the House of Reps. might be rendered by degrees like the Parliament of
Paris, the mere depository of the decrees of the Senate. As to the
compromise so much had passed on that subject that he would say nothing
about it. He did not mean by what he had said to oppose the permanency
of the Senate. On the contrary he had no repugnance to an increase of it
-- nor to allowing it a negative, though the Senate was not by its
present constitution entitled to it. But in all events he would contend
that the purse strings should be in the hands of the Representatives of
the people.

Mr. WILSON was himself directly opposed to the equality of votes granted
to the Senate by its present Constitution. At the same time he wished
not to multiply the vices of the system. He did not mean to enlarge on a
subject which had been so much canvassed, but would remark as an
insuperable objection agst. the proposed restriction of money bills to
the H. of Reps. that it would be a source of perpetual contentions where
there was no mediator to decide them. The Presidt. here could not like
the Executive Magistrate in England interpose by a prorogation, or
dissolution. This restriction had been found pregnant with altercation
in every State where the Constitution had established it. The House of
Reps. will insert other things in money bills, and by making them
conditions of each other, destroy the deliberative liberty of the
Senate. He stated the case of a Preamble to a money bill sent up by the
House of Commons in the reign of Queen Anne, to the H. of Lords, in
which the conduct of the displaced Ministry, who were to be impeached
before the Lords, was condemned; the Commons thus extorting a premature
judgmt. without any hearing of the Parties to be tried, and the H. of
Lords being thus reduced to the poor & disgraceful expedient of opposing
to the authority of a law, a protest on their Journals agst. its being
drawn into precedent. If there was any thing like Poynings law in the
present case, it was in the attempt to vest the exclusive right of
originating in the H. of Reps. and so far he was agst. it. He should be
equally so if the right were to be exclusively vested in the Senate.
With regard to the purse strings, it was to be observed that the purse
was to have two strings, one of which was in the hands of the H. of
Reps. the other in those of the Senate. Both houses must concur in
untying, and of what importance could it be which untied first, which
last. He could not conceive it to be any objection to the Senate's
preparing the bills, that they would have leisure for that purpose and
would be in the habits of business. War, Commerce, & Revenue were the
great objects of the Genl. Government. All of them are connected with
money.

The restriction in favor of the H. of Represts. would exclude the Senate
from originating any important bills whatever -- 

Mr. GERRY considered this as a part of the plan that would be much
scrutinized. Taxation & representation are strongly associated in the
minds of the people, and they will not agree that any but their
immediate representatives shall meddle with their purses. In short the
acceptance of the plan will inevitably fail, if the Senate be not
restrained from originating Money bills.

Mr. GOVERNr. MORRIS All the arguments suppose the right to originate
money [24] & to tax, to be exclusively vested in the Senate. -- The
effects commented on may be produced by a Negative only in the Senate.
They can tire out the other House, and extort their concurrence in
favorite measures, as well by withholding their negative, as by adhering
to a bill introduced by themselves.

Mr. MADISON thought If the substitute offered by Mr. Randolph for the
original section is to be adopted it would be proper to allow the Senate
at least so to amend as to diminish the sum [25] to be raised. Why
should they be restrained from checking the extravagance of the other
House? One of the greatest evils incident to Republican Govt. was the
spirit of contention & faction. The proposed substitute, which in some
respects lessened the objections agst. the section, had a contrary
effect with respect to this particular. It laid a foundation for new
difficulties and disputes between the two houses. The word revenue was
ambiguous. In many acts, particularly in the regulations of trade, the
object would be twofold. The raising of revenue would be one of them.
How could it be determined which was the primary or predominant one; or
whether it was necessary that revenue shd. be the sole object, in
exclusion even of other incidental effects. When the Contest was first
opened with G. B. their power to regulate trade was admitted. Their
power to raise revenue rejected. An accurate investigation of the
subject afterward proved that no line could be drawn between the two
cases. The words amend or alter, form an equal source of doubt &
altercation. When an obnoxious paragraph shall be sent down from the
Senate to the House of Reps -- it will be called an origination under
the name of an amendment. The Senate may actually couch extraneous
matter under that name. In these cases, the question will turn on the
degree of connection between the matter & object of the bill and the
alteration or amendment offered to it. Can there be a more fruitful
source of dispute, or a kind of dispute more difficult to be settled?
His apprehensions on this point were not conjectural. Disputes had
actually flowed from this source in Virga. where the Senate can
originate no bill. The words "so as to increase or diminish the sum to
be raised," were liable to the same objections. In levying indirect
taxes, which it seemed to be understood were to form the principal
revenue of the new Govt. the sum to be raised, would be increased or
diminished by a variety of collateral circumstances influencing the
consumption, in general, the consumption of foreign or of domestic
articles -- of this or that particular species of articles, and even by
the mode of collection which may be closely connected with the
productiveness of a tax. -- The friends of the section had argued its
necessity from the permanency of the Senate. He could not see how this
argumt. applied. The Senate was not more permanent now than in the form
it bore in the original propositions of Mr. Randolph and at the time
when no objection whatever was hinted agst. its originating money bills.
Or if in consequence of a loss of the present question, a proportional
vote in the Senate should be reinstated as has been urged as the
indemnification the permanency of the Senate will remain the same. -- If
the right to originate be vested exclusively in the House of Reps.
either the Senate must yield agst. its judgment to that House, in which
case the Utility of the check will be lost -- or the Senate will be
inflexible & the H. of Reps. must adapt its money bill to the views of
the Senate, in which case, the exclusive right will be of no avail. --
As to the Compromise of which so much had been said, he would make a
single observation. There were 5 States which had opposed the equality
of votes in the Senate, viz. Masts. Penna. Virga. N. Carolina & S.
Carola. As a compensation for the sacrifice extorted from them on this
head, the exclusive origination of money bills in the other House had
been tendered. Of the five States a majority viz. Penna. Virga. & S.
Carola. have uniformly voted agst. the proposed compensation, on its own
merits, as rendering the plan of Govt. still more objectionable. Massts.
has been divided. N. Carolina alone has set a value on the compensation,
and voted on that principle. What obligation then can the small States
be under to concur agst. their judgments in reinstating the section?

Mr. DICKENSON. Experience must be our only guide. Reason may mislead us.
It was not Reason that discovered the singular & admirable mechanism of
the English Constitution. It was not Reason that discovered or ever
could have discovered the odd & in the eye of those who are governed by
reason, the absurd mode of trial by Jury. Accidents probably produced
these discoveries, and experience has give a sanction to them. This is
then our guide. And has not experience verified the utility of
restraining money bills to the immediate representatives of the people.
Whence the effect may have proceeded he could not say; whether from the
respect with which this privilege inspired the other branches of Govt.
to the H. of Commons, or from the turn of thinking it gave to the people
at large with regard to their rights, but the effect was visible & could
not be doubted -- Shall we oppose to this long experience, the short
experience of 11 Years which we had ourselves, on this subject. As to
disputes, they could not be avoided any way. If both Houses should
originate, each would have a different bill to which it would be
attached, and for which it would contend. -- He observed that all the
prejudices of the people would be offended by refusing this exclusive
privilege to the H. of Repress. and these prejudices shd. never be
disregarded by us when no essential purpose was to be served. When this
plan goes forth it will be attacked by the popular leaders. Aristocracy
will be the watchword; the Shibboleth among its adversaries. Eight
States have inserted in their Constitutions the exclusive right of
originating money bills in favor of the popular branch of the
Legislature. Most of them however allowed the other branch to amend.
This he thought would be proper for us to do.

Mr. RANDOLPH regarded this point as of such consequence, that as he
valued the peace of this Country, he would press the adoption of it. We
had numerous & monstrous difficulties to combat. Surely we ought not to
increase them. When the people behold in the Senate, the countenance of
an aristocracy; and in the president, the form at least of a little
monarch, will not their alarms be sufficiently raised without taking
from their immediate representatives, a right which has been so long
appropriated to them. -- The Executive will have more influence over the
Senate, than over the H. of Reps. Allow the Senate to originate in this
case, & that influence will be sure to mix itself in their deliberations
& plans. The Declaration of War he conceived ought not to be in the
Senate composed of 26 men only, but rather in the other House. In the
other House ought to be placed the origination of the means of war. As
to Commercial regulations which may involve revenue, the difficulty may
be avoided by restraining the definition to bills, for the mere or sole,
purpose of raising revenue. The Senate will be more likely to be corrupt
than the H. of Reps. and should therefore have less to do with money
matters. His principal object however was to prevent popular objections
against the plan, and to secure its adoption.

Mr. RUTLIDGE. The friends of this motion are not consistent in their
reasoning. They tell us that we ought to be guided by the long
experience of G. B. & not our own experience of 11 years: and yet they
themselves propose to depart from it. The H. of Commons not only have
the exclusive right of originating, but the Lords are not allowed to
alter or amend a money bill. Will not the people say that this
restriction is but a mere tub to the whale. They cannot but see that it
is of no real consequence; and will be more likely to be displeased with
it as an attempt to bubble them, than to impute it to a watchfulness
over their rights. For his part, he would prefer giving the exclusive
right to the Senate, if it was to be given exclusively at all. The
Senate being more conversant in business, and having more eisure, will
digest the bills much better, and as they are to have no effect, till
examined & approved by the H. of Reps. there can be no possible danger.
These clauses in the Constitutions of the States had been put in through
a blind adherence to the British model. If the work was to be done over
now, they would be omitted. The experiment in S. Carolina, where the
Senate cannot originate or amend money bills, has shewn that it answers
no good purpose; and produces the very bad one of continually dividing &
heating the two houses. Sometimes indeed if the matter of the amendment
of the Senate is pleasing to the other House they wink at the
encroachment; if it be displeasing, then the Constitution is appealed
to. Every Session is distracted by altercations on this subject. The
practice now becoming frequent is for the Senate not to make formal
amendments; but to send down a schedule of the alterations which will
procure the bill their assent.

Mr. CARROL. The most ingenious men in Maryd. are puzzled to define the
case of money bills, or explain the Constitution on that point; tho' it
seemed to be worded with all possible plainness & precision. It is a
source of continual difficulty & squabble between the two houses.

Mr. Mc.HENRY mentioned an instance of extraordinary subterfuge, to get
rid of the apparent force of the Constitution.

On [26] Question on the first part of the motion as to the exclusive
originating of Money bills in [26] H. of Reps.

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Virga. ay.
Mr. Blair & Mr. M. no. Mr. R. Col. Mason and [27] Genl. Washington ay N.
C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. no. [28]

[29] Question on Originating by [30] H. of Reps. & amending by [30]
Senate, as reported Art. IV. Sect. 5.

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. [31]
ay. N. C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. no. [32]

[29] Question on the last clause of Sect: 5 -- Art. IV -- viz "No money
shall be drawn from the Public Treasury, but in pursuance of
appropriations that shall originate in the House of Reps. It passed in
the negative

N.H. no. Mas. ay Con. no. N.J. no. Pa. no Del. no. Md. no. Va. no. N.C.
no. S.C. no. Geo. no. [33]

Adjd.

___________

1. See ante.

2. The word "being" is here inserted in the transcript.

3. The words "On the" are here inserted in the transcript.

4. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, Pennsylvania,
Maryland, Virginia, aye -- 4; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New Jersey,
Delaware, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 7."

5. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, South Carolina,
Georgia, aye -- 3; Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, no -- 8."

6. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

7. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, Maryland, Virginia,
aye -- 3; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8."

8. The words "and on" are omitted in the transcript.

9. The words "their actual" are substituted in the transcript for "being
on a."

10. In the transcript the word "new" is crossed out and the syllable
"re" is written above it.

11. The word "the" is substituted in the transcript for "their."

12. The words "of age" are here inserted in the transcript.

13. The words "be then" are transposed in the transcript to read "then
be."

14. The words "On the" are here inserted in the transcript.

15. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, aye -- 5; New Hampshire,
Massachusetts, Delaware, North Carolina, South, Carolina, Georgia, no --
6."

16. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, Maryland, Virginia,
aye -- 3; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Delaware, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 7; Pennsylvania, Divided."

17. See ante.

18. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New
Jersey, Delaware, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye
-- 8; Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Maryland, no -- 3."

19. See ante.

20. The figure "1" is changed to "First" in the transcript.

21. The word "Secondly" is here inserted in the transcript.

22. The word "them" is substituted in the transcript for "these."

23. The word "ready" is omitted in the transcript.

24. The word "money" is omitted in the transcript. In Madison's notes it
is written above the words "originate" and "&" without a caret
indicating its position. It appears to have been omitted in all previous
editions.

25. The transcript uses the word "sum" in the plural.

26. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

27. He disapproved & till now voted agst. the exclusive privilege, he
gave up his judgment he said because it was not of very material weight
with him & was made an essential point with others who if disappointed,
might be less cordial in other points of real weight.

28. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Virginia [Mr. Blair, and Mr. Madison no, Mr. Randolph, Colonel Mason and
General Washington, [27] aye], North Carolina, aye -- 4; Connecticut,
New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, South Carolina, Georgia,
no -- 7."

29. The words "On the" are here inserted in the transcript.

30. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

31. In the printed Journ Virga. -- no.

32. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Virginia, [31] North Carolina aye -- 4; Connecticut, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 7."

33. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, aye -- 1; New
Hampshire Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 10."


