TEUSDAY  AUGUST 7th.   IN CONVENTION

The Report of the Committee of detail being taken up,

Mr. PINKNEY moved that it be referred to a Committee of the whole. This
was strongly opposed by Mr. GHORUM & several others, as likely to
produce unnecessary delay; and was negatived. Delaware Maryd & Virga
only being in the affirmative.

The preamble of the Report was agreed to nem. con. So were Art: I & II.
[1]

Art: III. [2, 3] considered. Col. MASON doubted the propriety of giving
each branch a negative on the other "in all cases." There were some
cases in which it was he supposed not intended to be given as in the
case of balloting for appointments.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved to insert "legislative acts" instead of "all
cases"

Mr. WILLIAMSON 2ds. him.

Mr. SHERMAN. This will restrain the operation of the clause too much. It
will particularly exclude a mutual negative in the case of ballots,
which he hoped would take place.

Mr. GHORUM contended that elections ought to be made by joint ballot. If
separate ballots should be made for the President, and the two branches
should be each attached to a favorite, great delay contention &
confusion may ensue. These inconveniences have been felt in Masts. in
the election of officers of little importance compared with the
Executive of the U. States. The only objection agst. a joint ballot is
that it may deprive the Senate of their due weight; but this ought not
to prevail over the respect due to the public tranquility & welfare.

Mr. WILSON was for a joint ballot in several cases at least;
particularly in the choice of the President, and was therefore for the
amendment. Disputes between the two Houses during & concerng. the
vacancy of the Executive might have dangerous consequences.

Col. MASON thought the amendment of Mr. Govr. Morris extended too far.
Treaties are in a subsequent part declared to be laws, they will be
therefore [4] subjected to a negative; altho' they are to be made as
proposed by the Senate alone. He proposed that the mutual negative
should be restrained to "cases requiring the distinct assent" of the two
Houses.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS thought this but a repetition of the same thing; the
mutual negative and distinct assent, being equavalent expressions.
Treaties he thought were not laws.

Mr. MADISON moved to strike out the words "each of which shall in all
cases, have a negative on the other; the idea being sufficiently
expressed in the preceding member of the article; vesting the
"legislative power" in "distinct bodies," especially as the respective
powers and mode of exercising them were fully delineated in a subsequent
article.

Genl. PINKNEY 2ded. the motion

On [5] question for inserting legislative Acts as moved by Mr. Govr.
Morris. [6]

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no. N. C. ay. S.
C. no. Geo. no. [7]

On [5] question for agreeing to Mr. M's motion to strike out &c. -- N.
H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. no. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. no. Va. ay. N. C. no. S. C.
ay. Geo. ay. [8]

Mr. MADISON wished to know the reasons of the Come. for fixing by ye.
Constitution the time of Meeting for the Legislature; and suggested,
that it be required only that one meeting at least should be held every
year leaving the time to be fixed or varied by law.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved to strike out the sentence. It was improper to
tie down the Legislature to a particular time, or even to require a
meeting every year. The public business might not require it.

Mr. PINKNEY concurred with Mr. Madison.

Mr. GHORUM. If the time be not fixed by the Constitution, disputes will
arise in the Legislature; and the States will be at a loss to adjust
thereto, the times of their elections. In the N. England States the
annual time of meeting had been long fixed by their Charters &
Constitutions, and no inconveniency [9] had resulted. He thought it
necessary that there should be one meeting at least every year as a
check on the Executive department.

Mr. ELSEWORTH was agst. striking out the words. The Legislature will not
know till they are met whether the public interest required their
meeting or not. He could see no impropriety in fixing the day, as the
Convention could judge of it as well as the Legislature.

Mr. WILSON thought on the whole it would be best to fix the day.

Mr. KING could not think there would be a necessity for a meeting every
year. A great vice in our system was that of legislating too much. The
most numerous objects of legislation belong to the States. Those of the
Natl. Legislature were but few. The chief of them were commerce &
revenue. When these should be once settled, alterations would be rarely
necessary & easily made.

Mr. MADISON thought if the time of meeting should be fixed by a law it
wd. be sufficiently fixed & there would be no difficulty then as had
been suggested, on the part of the States in adjusting their elections
to it. One consideration appeared to him to militate strongly agst.
fixing a time by the Constitution. It might happen that the Legislature
might be called together by the public exigencies & finish their Session
but a short time before the annual period. In this case it would be
extremely inconvenient to reassemble so quickly & without the least
necessity. He thought one annual meeting ought to be required; but did
not wish to make two unavoidable.

Col. MASON thought the objections against fixing the time insuperable:
but that an annual meeting ought to be required as essential to the
preservation of the Constitution. The extent of the Country will supply
business. And if it should not, the Legislature, besides legislative, is
to have inquisitorial powers, which can not safely be long kept in a
state of suspension.

Mr. SHERMAN was decided for fixing the time, as well as for frequent
meetings of the Legislative body. Disputes and difficulties will arise
between the two Houses, & between both & the States, if the time be
changeable -- frequent meetings of Parliament were required at the
Revolution in England as an essential safeguard of liberty. So also are
annual meetings in most of the American charters & constitutions. There
will be business eno' to require it. The Western Country, and the great
extent and varying state of our affairs in general will supply objects.

Mr. RANDOLPH was agst. fixing any day irrevocably; but as there was no
provision made any where in the Constitution for regulating the periods
of meeting, and some precise time must be fixed, untill the Legislature
shall make provision, he could not agree to strike out the words
altogether. Instead of which he moved to add the words following -- "
unless a different day shall be appointed by law." 

Mr. MADISON 2ded. the motion, & on the question N. H. no. Mas. ay. Ct.
no. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [10]

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved to strike out Decr. & insert May. It might
frequently happen that our measures ought to be influenced by those in
Europe, which were generally planned during the Winter and of which
intelligence would arrive in the Spring.

Mr. MADISON 2ded. the motion, he preferred May to Decr. because the
latter would require the travelling to & from the seat of Govt. in the
most inconvenient seasons of the year.

Mr. WILSON. The Winter is the most convenient season for business.

Mr. ELSEWORTH. The summer will interfere too much with private business,
that of almost all the probable members of the Legislature being more or
less connected with agriculture.

Mr. RANDOLPH. The time is of no great moment now, as the Legislature can
vary it. On looking into the Constitutions of the States, he found that
the times of their elections with which the election [11] of the Natl.
Representatives would no doubt be made to co-incide, would suit better
with Decr. than May. And it was adviseable to render our innovations as
little incommodious as possible.

On [12] question for "May" instead of "Decr."

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no. N. C no. S.
C. ay. Geo. ay. [13]

Mr. READ moved to insert after the word "Senate" the words, "subject to
the Negative to be hereafter provided." His object was to give an
absolute negative to the Executive -- He considered this as so essential
to the Constitution, to the preservation of liberty, & to the public
welfare, that his duty compelled him to make the motion.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS 2ded. him. And on the question

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. no. Va. no. N. C. no. S.
C. no. Geo. no. [14]

Mr. RUTLIDGE. Altho' it is agreed on all hands that an annual meeting of
the Legislature should be made necessary, yet that point seems not to be
freed from doubt as the clause stands. On this suggestion, "Once at
least in every year," were inserted, nem. con.

Art. III with the foregoing alterations was agd. to nem. con. and is as
follows "The Legislative power shall be vested in a Congress to consist
of 2 separate & distinct bodies of men; a House of Reps. & a Senate The
Legislature shall meet at least once in every year, and such meeting
shall be on the 1st. monday in Decr. unless a different day shall be
appointed by law."

"Art IV. Sect. 1. [15, 16] taken up."

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved to strike out the last member of the section
beginning with the words "qualifications" of Electors," in order that
some other provision might be substituted which wd. restrain the right
of suffrage to freeholders.

Mr. FITZIMMONS 2ded. the motion

Mr. WILLIAMSON was opposed to it.

Mr. WILSON. This part of the Report was well considered by the
Committee, and he did not think it could be changed for the better. It
was difficult to form any uniform rule of qualifications for all the
States. Unnecessary innovations he thought too should be avoided. It
would be very hard & disagreeable for the same persons at the same time,
to vote for representatives in the State Legislature and to be excluded
from a vote for those in the Natl. Legislature.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. Such a hardship would be neither great nor novel. The
people are accustomed to it and not dissatisfied with it, in several of
the States. In some the qualifications are different for the choice of
the Govr. & [17] Representatives; In others for different Houses of the
Legislature. Another objection agst. the clause as it stands is that it
makes the qualifications of the Natl. Legislature depend on the will of
the States, which he thought not proper.

Mr. ELSEWORTH. thought the qualifications of the electors stood on the
most proper footing. The right of suffrage was a tender point, and
strongly guarded by most of the State Constitutions. The people will not
readily subscribe to the Natl. Constitution if it should subject them to
be disfranchised. The States are the best Judges of the circumstances &
temper of their own people.

Col. MASON. The force of habit is certainly not attended to by those
gentlemen who wish for innovations on this point. Eight or nine States
have extended the right of suffrage beyond the freeholders, what will
the people there say, if they should be disfranchised. A power to alter
the qualifications would be a dangerous power in the hands of the
Legislature.

Mr. BUTLER. There is no right of which the people are more jealous than
that of suffrage. Abridgments of it tend to the same revolution as in
Holland where they have at length thrown all power into the hands of the
Senates, who fill up vacancies themselves, and form a rank aristocracy.

Mr. DICKINSON. had a very different idea of the tendency of vesting the
right of suffrage in the freeholders of the Country. He considered them
as the best guardians of liberty; And the restriction of the right to
them as a necessary defence agst. the dangerous influence of those
multitudes without property & without principle with which our Country
like all others, will in time abound. As to the unpopularity of the
innovation it was in his opinion chemirical. The great mass of our
Citizens is composed at this time of freeholders, and will be pleased
with it.

Mr. ELSEWORTH. How shall the freehold be defined? Ought not every man
who pays a tax, to vote for the representative who is to levy & dispose
of his money? Shall the wealthy merchants & manufacturers, who will bear
a full share of the public burdens be not allowed a voice in the
imposition of them -- taxation & representation ought to go together.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. He had long learned not to be the dupe of words. The
sound of Aristocracy therefore had no effect on [18] him. It was the
thing, not the name, to which he was opposed, and one of his principal
objections to the Constitution as it is now before us, is that it
threatens this [19] Country with an Aristocracy. The aristocracy will
grow out of the House of Representatives. Give the votes to people who
have no property, and they will sell them to the rich who will be able
to buy them. We should not confine our attention to the present moment.
The time is not distant when this Country will abound with mechanics &
manufacturers [20] who will receive their bread from their employers.
Will such men be the secure & faithful Guardians of liberty? Will they
be the impregnable barrier agst. aristocracy? -- He was as little duped
by the association of the words "taxation & Representation." The man who
does not give his vote freely is not represented. It is the man who
dictates the vote. Children do not vote. Why? because they want
prudence, because they have no will of their own. The ignorant & the
dependent can be as little trusted with the public interest. He did not
conceive the difficulty of defining "freeholders" to be insuperable.
Still less that the restriction could be unpopular. 9/10 of the people
are at present freeholders and these will certainly be pleased with it.
As to Merchts. &c. if they have wealth & value the right they can
acquire it. If not they don't deserve it.

Col. MASON. We all feel too strongly the remains of antient prejudices,
and view things too much through a British medium. A Freehold is the
qualification in England, & hence it is imagined to be the only proper
one. The true idea in his opinion was that every man having evidence of
attachment to & permanent common interest with the Society ought to
share in all its rights & privileges. Was this qualification restrained
to freeholders? Does no other kind of property but land evidence a
common interest in the proprietor? does nothing besides property mark a
permanent attachment. Ought the merchant, the monied man, the parent of
a number of children whose fortunes are to be pursued in his own
Country, to be viewed as suspicious characters, and unworthy to be
trusted with the common rights of their fellow Citizens

Mr. MADISON. the right of suffrage is certainly one of the fundamental
articles of republican Government, and ought not to be left to be
regulated by the Legislature. A gradual abridgment of this right has
been the mode in which Aristocracies have been built on the ruins of
popular forms. Whether the Constitutional qualification ought to be a
freehold, would with him depend much on the probable reception such a
change would meet with in [21] States where the right was now exercised
by every description of people. In several of the States a freehold was
now the qualification. Viewing the subject in its merits alone, the
freeholders of the Country would be the safest depositories of
Republican liberty. In future times a great majority of the people will
not only be without landed, but any other sort of, property. These will
either combine under the influence of their common situation; in which
case, the rights of property & the public liberty, will not be secure in
their hands: or which [22] is more probable, they will become the tools
of opulence & ambition, in which case there will be equal danger on
another side. The example of England had been misconceived [by Col
Mason]. A very small proportion of the Representatives are there chosen
by freeholders. The greatest part are chosen by the Cities & boroughs,
in many of which the qualification of suffrage is as low as it in any of
the U. S. and it was in the boroughs & Cities rather than the Counties,
that bribery most prevailed, & the influence of the Crown on elections
was most dangerously exerted. [23]

DOCr. FRANKLIN. It is of great consequence that we shd. not depress the
virtue & public spirit of our common people; of which they displayed a
great deal during the war, and which contributed principally to the
favorable issue of it. He related the honorable refusal of the American
seamen who were carried in great numbers into the British Prisons during
the war, to redeem themselves from misery or to seek their fortunes, by
entering on board the Ships of the Enemies to their Country; contrasting
their patriotism with a contemporary instance in which the British
seamen made prisoners by the Americans, readily entered on the ships of
the latter on being promised a share of the prizes that might be made
out of their own Country. This proceeded he said from the different
manner in which the common people were treated in America & G. Britain.
He did not think that the elected had any right in any case to narrow
the privileges of the electors. He quoted as arbitrary the British
Statute setting forth the danger of tumultuous meetings, and under that
pretext narrowing the right of suffrage to persons having freeholds of a
certain value; observing that this Statute was soon followed by another
under the succeeding Parliamt. subjecting the people who had no votes to
peculiar labors & hardships. He was persuaded also that such a
restriction as was proposed would give great uneasiness in the populous
States. The sons of a substantial farmer, not being themselves
freeholders, would not be pleased at being disfranchised, and there are
a great many persons of the description.

Mr. MERCER. The Constitution is objectionable in many points, but in
none more than the present. He objected to the footing on which the
qualification was put, but particularly to the mode of election by the
people. The people can not know & judge of the characters of Candidates.
The worse possible choice will be made. He quoted the case of the Senate
in Virga. as an example in point. The people in Towns can unite their
votes in favor of one favorite; & by that means always prevail over the
people of the Country, who being dispersed will scatter their votes
among a variety of candidates.

Mr. RUTLIDGE thought the idea of restraining the right of suffrage to
the freeholders a very unadvised one. It would create division among the
people & make enemies of all those who should be excluded.

On the question for striking out as moved by Mr. Govr. Morris, from the
word "qualifications" to the end of the III article. N. H. no. Mas. no.
Ct. no. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. divd. Va. no. N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. not
prest. [24]

Adjourned

___________

1. See ante.

2. See ante.

3. The word "being" is here inserted in the transcript.

4. The words "be therefore" are changed in the transcript to "therefore
be."

5. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

6. The phrase "it passed in the negative, the votes being equally
divided," is here inserted in the transcript.

7. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, aye -- 5; Delaware, Maryland,
Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 5"

8. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 7;
Connecticut, Maryland, North Carolina, no -- 3."

9. The word "inconveniency" is changed in the transcript to
"inconvenience."

10. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia,
aye -- 8; New Hampshire, Connecticut, no -- 2."

11. The word "election" is used in the plural in the transcript.

12. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

13. In the transcript the vote reads: "South Carolina, Georgia, aye --
2; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Delaware,
Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, no -- 8."

14. In the transcript the vote reads: aye -- 1; New Hampshire,
Massachusetts, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 9."

15. See ante.

16. The words "was then" are here inserted in the transcript.

17. The words "of the" are here inserted in the transcript.

18. The word "upon" is substituted in the transcript for "on."

19. The word "the" is substituted in the transcript for "this."

20. The word "manufacturers" is substituted in the transcript for
"manufactures."

21. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

22. The word "which" is crossed out in the transcript and "what" is
written above it.

23. In the transcript the following footnote is here added: "See
Appendix No. -- for a note of Mr. Madison to this speech."

24. In the transcript the vote reads: "Delaware, aye -- 1; New
Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, no -- 7; Maryland, divided; Georgia, not
present"


