WEDNESDAY  JUNE 6th  IN COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE

Mr. PINKNEY according to previous notice & rule obtained, moved "that
the first branch of the national Legislature be elected by the State
Legislatures, and not by the people." contending that the people were
less fit Judges in such a case, and that the Legislatures would be less
likely to promote the adoption of the new Government, if they were to be
excluded from all share in it.

Mr. RUTLIDGE 2ded. the motion.

Mr. GERRY. Much depends on the mode of election. In England, the people
will probably lose their liberty from the smallness of the proportion
having a right of suffrage. Our danger arises from the opposite extreme:
hence in Massts. the worst men get into the Legislature. Several members
of that Body had lately been convicted of infamous crimes. Men of
indigence, ignorance & baseness, spare no pains, however dirty to carry
their point agst. men who are superior to the artifices practised. He
was not disposed to run into extremes. He was as much principled as ever
agst. aristocracy and monarchy. It was necessary on the one hand that
the people should appoint one branch of the Govt. in order to inspire
them with the necessary confidence. But he wished the election on the
other to be so modified as to secure more effectually a just preference
of merit. His idea was that the people should nominate certain persons
in certain districts, out of whom the State Legislatures shd. make the
appointment.

Mr. WILSON. He wished for vigor in the Govt., but he wished that
vigorous authority to flow immediately from the legitimate source of all
authority. The Govt. ought to possess not only 1st. the force, but 2dly.
the mind or sense of the people at large. The Legislature ought to be
the most exact transcript of the whole Society. Representation is made
necessary only because it is impossible for the people to act
collectively. The opposition was to be expected he said from the
Governments, not from the Citizens of the States. The latter had parted
as was observed [by Mr. King] with all the necessary powers; [1] and it
was immaterial to them, by whom they were exercised, if well exercised.
The State officers were to be the losers of power. The people he
supposed would be rather more attached to the national Govt. than to the
State Govts. as being more important in itself, and more flattering to
their pride. There is no danger of improper elections if made by large
districts. Bad elections proceed from the smallness of the districts
which give an opportunity to bad men to intrigue themselves into office.

Mr. SHERMAN. If it were in view to abolish the State Govts. the
elections ought to be by the people. If the State Govts. are to be
continued, it is necessary in order to preserve harmony between the
National & State Govts. that the elections to the former shd. be made by
the latter. The right of participating in the National Govt. would be
sufficiently secured to the people by their election of the State
Legislatures. The objects of the Union, he thought were few. 1. [2]
defence agst. foreign danger. 2 [2] agst. internal disputes & a resort
to force. 3. [2] Treaties with foreign nations. 4 [2] regulating foreign
commerce, & drawing revenue from it. These & perhaps a few lesser
objects alone rendered a Confederation of the States necessary. All
other matters civil & criminal would be much better in the hands of the
States. The people are more happy in small than [3] large States. States
may indeed be too small as Rhode Island, & thereby be too subject to
faction. Some others were perhaps too large, the powers of Govt. not
being able to pervade them. He was for giving the General Govt. power to
legislate and execute within a defined province.

Col. MASON. Under the existing Confederacy, Congs. represent the States
[4] not the people of the States: their acts operate on the States, not
on the individuals. [5] The case will be changed in the new plan of
Govt. The people will be represented; they ought therefore to choose the
Representatives. The requisites in actual representation are that the
Reps. should sympathize with their constituents; shd. think as they
think, & feel as they feel; and that for these purposes shd. even be
residents among them. Much he sd. had been alledged agst. democratic
elections. He admitted that much might be said; but it was to be
considered that no Govt. was free from imperfections & evils; and that
improper elections in many instances, were inseparable from Republican
Govts. But compare these with the advantage of this Form in favor of the
rights of the people, in favor of human nature. He was persuaded there
was a better chance for proper elections by the people, if divided into
large districts, than by the State Legislatures. Paper money had been
issued by the latter when the former were against it. Was it to be
supposed that the State Legislatures then wd. not send to the Natl.
legislature patrons of such projects, if the choice depended on them.

Mr. MADISON considered an election of one branch at least of the
Legislature by the people immediately, as a clear principle of free
Govt. and that this mode under proper regulations had the additional
advantage of securing better representatives, as well as of avoiding too
great an agency of the State Governments in the General one. -- He
differed from the member from Connecticut [Mr. Sharman] in thinking the
objects mentioned to be all the principal ones that required a National
Govt. Those were certainly important and necessary objects; but he
combined with them the necessity of providing more effectually for the
security of private rights, and the steady dispensation of Justice.
Interferences with these were evils which had more perhaps than any
thing else, produced this convention. Was it to be supposed that
republican liberty could long exist under the abuses of it practised in
some of the States. The gentleman [Mr. Sharman] had admitted that in a
very small State, faction & oppression wd. prevail. It was to be
inferred then that wherever these prevailed the State was too small. Had
they not prevailed in the largest as well as the smallest tho' less than
in the smallest; and were we not thence admonished to enlarge the sphere
as far as the nature of the Govt. would admit. This was the only defence
agst. the inconveniencies of democracy consistent with the democratic
form of Govt. All civilized Societies would be divided into different
Sects, Factions, & interests, as they happened to consist of rich &
poor, debtors & creditors, the landed, the manufacturing, the commercial
interests, the inhabitants of this district or that district, the
followers of this political leader or that political leader, the
disciples of this religious Sect or that religious Sect. In all cases
where a majority are united by a common interest or passion, the rights
of the minority are in danger. What motives are to restrain them? A
prudent regard to the maxim that honesty is the best policy is found by
experience to be as little regarded by bodies of men as by individuals.
Respect for character is always diminished in proportion to the number
among whom the blame or praise is to be divided. Conscience, the only
remaining tie, is known to be inadequate in individuals: In large
numbers, little is to be expected from it. Besides, Religion itself may
become a motive to persecution & oppression. -- These observations are
verified by the Histories of every Country antient & modern. In Greece &
Rome the rich & poor, the creditors & debtors, as well as the patricians
& plebians alternately oppressed each other with equal unmercifulness.
What a source of oppression was the relation between the parent cities
of Rome, Athens & Carthage, & their respective provinces: the former
possessing the power, & the latter being sufficiently distinguished to
be separate objects of it? Why was America so justly apprehensive of
Parliamentary injustice? Because G. Britain had a separate interest real
or supposed, & if her authority had been admitted, could have pursued
that interest at our expence. We have seen the mere distinction of
colour made in the most enlightened period of time, a ground of the most
oppressive dominion ever exercised by man over man. What has been the
source of those unjust laws complained of among ourselves? Has it not
been the real or supposed interest of the major number? Debtors have
defrauded their creditors. The landed interest has borne hard on the
mercantile interest. The Holders of one species of property have thrown
a disproportion of taxes on the holders of another species. The lesson
we are to draw from the whole is that where a majority are united by a
common sentiment, and have an opportunity, the rights of the minor party
become insecure. In a Republican Govt. the Majority if united have
always an opportunity. The only remedy is to enlarge the sphere, &
thereby divide the community into so great a number of interests &
parties, that in the 1st. place a majority will not be likely at the
same moment to have a common interest separate from that of the whole or
of the minority; and in the 2d. place, that in case they shd. have such
an interest, they may not be [6] apt to unite in the pursuit of it. It
was incumbent on us then to try this remedy, and with that view to frame
a republican system on such a scale & in such a form as will controul
all the evils wch. have been experienced.

Mr. DICKENSON considered it as [7] essential that one branch of the
Legislature shd. be drawn immediately from the people; and as expedient
that the other shd. be chosen by the Legislatures of the States. This
combination of the State Govts. with the national Govt. was as politic
as it was unavoidable. In the formation of the Senate we ought to carry
it through such a refining process as will assimilate it as near as may
be to the House of Lords in England. He repeated his warm eulogiums on
the British Constitution. He was for a strong National Govt. but for
leaving the States a considerable agency in the System. The objection
agst. making the former dependent on the latter might be obviated by
giving to the Senate an authority permanent & irrevocable for three,
five or seven years. Being thus independent they will speak [8] & decide
with becoming freedom.

Mr. READ. Too much attachment is betrayed to the State Governts. We must
look beyond their continuance. A national Govt. must soon of necessity
swallow all of them [9] up. They will soon be reduced to the mere office
of electing the National Senate. He was agst. patching up the old
federal System: he hoped the idea wd. be dismissed. It would be like
putting new cloth on an old garment. The confederation was founded on
temporary principles. It cannot last: it cannot be amended. If we do not
establish a good Govt. on new principles, we must either go to ruin, or
have the work to do over again. The people at large are wrongly
suspected of being averse to a Genl. Govt. The aversion lies among
interested men who possess their confidence.

Mr. PIERCE was for an election by the people as to the 1st. branch & by
the States as to the 2d. branch; by which means the Citizens of the
States wd. be represented both individually & collectively.

General PINKNEY wished to have a good National Govt. & at the same time
to leave a considerable share of power in the States. An election of
either branch by the people scattered as they are in many States,
particularly in S. Carolina was totally impracticable. He differed from
gentlemen who thought that a choice by the people wd. be a better guard
agst. bad measures, than by the Legislatures. A majority of the people
in S. Carolina were notoriously for paper money as a legal tender; the
Legislature had refused to make it a legal tender. The reason was that
the latter had some sense of character and were restrained by that
consideration. The State Legislatures also he said would be more
jealous, & more ready to thwart the National Govt., if excluded from a
participation in it. The Idea of abolishing these Legislatures wd. never
go down.

Mr. WILSON, would not have spoken again, but for what had fallen from
Mr. Read; namely, that the idea of preserving the State Govts. ought to
be abandoned. He saw no incompatibility between the National & State
Govts. provided the latter were restrained to certain local purposes;
nor any probability of their being devoured by the former. In all
confederated Systems antient & modern the reverse had happened; the
Generality being destroyed gradually by the usurpations of the parts
composing it.

On the question for electing the 1st. branch by the State Legislatures
as moved by Mr. Pinkney: it was negatived:

Mass. no. Ct. ay. N. Y. no. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no.
N. C. no. S. C. ay. Geo. no. [10]

Mr. WILSON moved to reconsider the vote excluding the Judiciary from a
share in the revision of the laws, and to add after "National Executive"
the words "with a convenient number of the national Judiciary";
remarking the expediency of reinforcing the Executive with the influence
of that Department.

Mr. MADISON 2ded. the motion. He observed that the great difficulty in
rendering the Executive competent to its own defence arose from the
nature of Republican Govt. which could not give to an individual citizen
that settled pre-eminence in the eyes of the rest, that weight of
property, that personal interest agst. betraying the national interest,
which appertain to an hereditary magistrate. In a Republic personal
merit alone could be the ground of political exaltation, but it would
rarely happen that this merit would be so pre-eminent as to produce
universal acquiescence. The Executive Magistrate would be envied &
assailed by disappointed competitors: His firmness therefore wd. need
support. He would not possess those great emoluments from his station,
nor that permanent stake in the public interest which wd. place him out
of the reach of foreign corruption: He would stand in need therefore of
being controuled as well as supported. An association of the Judges in
his revisionary function wd. both double the advantage and diminish the
danger. It wd. also enable the Judiciary Department the better to defend
itself agst. Legislative encroachments. Two objections had been made
1st. that the Judges ought not to be subject to the bias which a
participation in the making of laws might give in the exposition of
them. 2dly. that the Judiciary Departmt. ought to be separate & distinct
from the other great Departments. The 1st. objection had some weight;
but it was much diminished by reflecting that a small proportion of the
laws coming in question before a Judge wd. be such wherein he had been
consulted; that a small part of this proportion wd. be so ambiguous as
to leave room for his prepossessions; and that but a few cases wd.
probably arise in the life of a Judge under such ambiguous passages. How
much good on the other hand wd. proceed from the perspicuity, the
conciseness, and the systematic character wch. the Code of laws wd.
receive from the Judiciary talents. As to the 2d. objection, it either
had no weight, or it applied with equal weight to the Executive & to the
Judiciary revision of the laws. The maxim on which the objection was
founded required a separation of the Executive as well as of [11] the
Judiciary from the Legislature & from each other. There wd. in truth
however be no improper mixture of these distinct powers in the present
case. In England, whence the maxim itself had been drawn, the Executive
had an absolute negative on the laws; and the supreme tribunal of
Justice [the House of Lords] formed one of the other branches of the
Legislature. In short whether the object of the revisionary power was to
restrain the Legislature from encroaching on the other co-ordinate
Departments, or on the rights of the people at large; or from passing
laws unwise in their principle, or incorrect in their form, the utility
of annexing the wisdom and weight of the Judiciary to the Executive
seemed incontestable.

Mr. GERRY thought the Executive, whilst standing alone wd. be more
impartial than when he cd. be covered by the sanction & seduced by the
sophistry of the Judges.

Mr. KING. If the Unity of the Executive was preferred for the sake of
responsibility, the policy of it is as applicable to the revisionary as
to the Executive power.

Mr. PINKNEY had been at first in favor of joining the heads of the
principal departmts. the Secretary of War, of foreign affairs & -- in
the council of revision. He had however relinquished the idea from a
consideration that these could be called in [12] by the Executive
Magistrate whenever he pleased to consult them. He was opposed to an
[13] introduction of the Judges into the business.

Col. MASON was for giving all possible weight to the revisionary
institution. The Executive power ought to be well secured agst.
Legislative usurpations on it. The purse & the sword ought never to get
into the same hands whether Legislative or Executive.

Mr. DICKENSON. Secrecy, vigor & despatch are not the principal
properties reqd. in the Executive. Important as these are, that of
responsibility is more so, which can only be preserved; by leaving it
singly to discharge its functions. He thought too a junction of the
Judiciary to it, involved an improper mixture of powers.

Mr. WILSON remarked, that the responsibility required belonged to his
Executive duties. The revisionary duty was an extraneous one, calculated
for collateral purposes.

Mr. WILLIAMSON, was for substituting a clause requiring 2/3 for every
effective act of the Legislature, in place of the revisionary provision.

On the question for joining the Judges to the Executive in the
revisionary business, Mass. no. Cont. ay. N. Y. ay. N. J. no. Pa. no.
Del. no. Md. no. Va. ay. N. C. no. S. C. No. Geo. no. [14]

Mr. PINKNEY gave notice that tomorrow he should move for the
reconsideration of that clause in the sixth Resolution adopted by the
Comme. which vests a negative in the National Legislature on the laws of
the several States.

The Come. rose & the House adjd. to 11 OC. [15]

___________

1. The phrase "with all the necessary powers" is italicized in the
transcript.

2. The figures "1," "2," "3" and "4" are changed to "first," "secondly,"
etc. in the transcript.

3. The word "in" is here inserted in the transcript.

4. The word "and" is here inserted in the transcript.

5. The transcript italicizes the word "individuals."

6. The word "so" is here inserted in the transcript.

7. The word "as" is omitted in the transcript.

8. The word "check" is substituted in the transcript for "speak."

9. The words "them all" are substituted in the transcript for "all of
them."

10. In the transcript the vote reads "Connecticut, New Jersey, South
Carolina, aye -- 3; Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania, Delaware,
Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8.

11. The word "of" is omitted in the transcript.

12. The word "on" is substituted in the transcript for "in."

13. The word "the" is substituted in the transcript for "an."

14. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New York, Virginia,
aye -- 3; Massachusetts, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland,
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8."

15. The expression "to 11 OC" is omitted in the transcript.


