MONDAY  MAY 28 [1]

[2] From Massts. Nat: Gorham & Caleb Strong. From Connecticut Oliver
Elseworth. From Delaware, Gunning Bedford. From Maryland James McHenry.
From Penna. B. Franklin, George Clymer, Ths. Mifflin & Jared Ingersol
took their seats.

Mr. WYTHE from the Committee for preparing rules made a report which
employed the deliberations of this day. 

Mr. KING objected to one of the rules in the Report authorising any
member to call for the yeas & nays and have them entered on the minutes.
He urged that as the acts of the Convention were not to bind the
Constituents, it was unnecessary to exhibit this evidence of the votes;
and improper as changes of opinion would be frequent in the course of
the business & would fill the minutes with contradictions. 

Col. MASON seconded the objection; adding that such a record of the
opinions of members would be an obstacle to a change of them on
conviction; and in case of its being hereafter promulged must furnish
handles to the adversaries of the Result of the Meeting. The proposed
rule was rejected nem. contradicente. The standing rules [*3, 4] agreed
to were as follow: [see the Journal & copy here the printed rules] [5]
[viz. [6] A House to do business shall consist of the Deputies of not
less than seven States; and all questions shall be decided by the
greater number of these which shall be fully represented: but a less
number than seven may adjourn from day to day. Immediately after the
President shall have taken the chair, and the members their seats, the
minutes of the preceding day shall be read by the Secretary. Every
member, rising to speak, shall address the President; and whilst he
shall be speaking, none shall pass between them, or hold discourse with
another, or read a book, pamphlet or paper, printed or manuscript-and of
two members rising [7] at the same time, the President shall name him
who shall be first heard. A member shall not speak oftener than twice,
without special leave, upon the same question; and not the second time,
before every other, who had been silent, shall have been heard, if he
choose to speak upon the subject. A motion made and seconded, shall be
repeated, and if written, as it shall be when any member shall so
require, read aloud by the Secretary, before it shall be debated; and
may be withdrawn at any time, before the vote upon it shall have been
declared. Orders of the day shall be read next after the minutes, and
either discussed or postponed, before any other business shall be
introduced. When a debate shall arise upon a question, no motion, other
than to amend the question, to commit it, or to postpone the debate
shall be received.] [A question which is complicated, shall, at the
request of any member, be divided, and put separately on [8] the
propositions, of which it is compounded. The determination of a
question, altho' fully debated, shall be postponed, if the deputies of
any State desire it until the next day. A writing which contains any
matter brought on to be considered, shall be read once throughout for
information, then by paragraphs to be debated, and again, with the
amendments, if any, made on the second reading; and afterwards, the
question shall be put on [8] the whole, amended, or approved in its
original form, as the case shall be. 9 Committees shall be appointed by
ballot; and [9] the members who have the greatest number of ballots,
altho' not a majority of the votes present, shall [10] be the Committee.
When two or more members have an equal number of votes, the member
standing first on the list in the order of taking down the ballots,
shall be preferred. A member may be called to order by any other member,
as well as by the President; and may be allowed to explain his conduct
or expressions supposed to be reprehensible. -- And all questions of
order shall be decided by the President without appeal or debate. Upon a
question to adjourn for the day, which may be made at any time, if it be
seconded, the question shall be put without a debate. When the House
shall adjourn, every member shall stand in his place, until the
President pass him.] [11] A letter from sundry persons of the State of
Rho. Island addressed to the Honorable [12] The Chairman of the General
Convention was presented to the Chair by Mr. GOVr. MORRIS, and being
read, was ordered to lie on the table for further consideration. [For
the letter see Note in the Appendix] [13]

Mr. BUTLER moved that the House provide agst. interruption of business
by absence of members, and against licentious publications of their
proceedings -- to which was added by -- Mr. SPAIGHT -- a motion to
provide that on the one hand the House might not be precluded by a vote
upon any question, from revising the subject matter of it when they see
cause, nor, on the other hand, be led too hastily to rescind a decision,
which was the result of mature discussion. -- Whereupon it was ordered
that these motions be referred to [14] the consideration of the
Committee appointed to draw up the standing rules and that the Committee
make report thereon.

Adjd. till tomorrow [15] 10. OClock.

___________

1. The year " 1787" is here inserted in the transcript.

2. The words "In Convention" are here inserted in the transcript.

*3. Previous to the arrival of a majority of the States, the rule by
which they ought to vote in the Convention had been made a subject of
conversation among the members present. It was pressed by Governeur
Morris and others from Pennsylvania, that the large States should unite
in firmly refusing to the small states an equal vote, as unreasonable,
and as enabling the small States to negative every good system of
Government, which must in the nature of things, be founded on a
violation of that equality. The members from Virginia, conceiving that
such an attempt might beget fatal altercations between the large & small
States, and that it would be easier to prevail on the latter, in the
course of the deliberations, to give up their equality for the sake of
an effective Government, than on taking the field of discussion to
disarm themselves of the right & thereby throw themselves on the mercy
of the large States, discountenanced & stifled the project.

4. Madison's footnote reference mark after the word "rules" is placed in
the transcript after the word "him" thus placing the footnote at the end
of the rules instead of at the beginning.

5. Madison's direction is omitted from the transcript and the work
"Rules" is inserted. 

6. The word "viz." is omitted in the transcript.

7. The words "to speak" are inserted in the transcript after "rising."

8. The word "upon" is substituted for "on" in the transcript.

9. The word "that" is here inserted in the transcript.

10. The word "shall" is omitted in the transcript.

11. See footnote 4.

12. The words "the Honorable" are omitted in the transcript.

13. The footnote in the transcript reads as follows: "For the letter,
see Appendix No. blank."

14. The word "for" is substituted in the transcript for the word "to".

15. The word "at" is here inserted in the transcript.


