SATURDAY  SEPR 15TH  1787 [1]  IN CONVENTION

Mr. CARROL reminded the House that no address to the people had yet been
prepared. He considered it of great importance that such an one should
accompany the Constitution. The people had been accustomed to such on
great occasions, and would expect it on this. He moved that a Committee
be appointed for the special purpose of preparing an Address.

Mr. RUTLEDGE objected on account of the delay it would produce and the
impropriety of addressing the people before it was known whether
Congress would approve and support the plan. Congress, if an address be
thought proper can prepare as good a one. The members of the Convention
can also explain the reasons of what has been done to their respective
Constituents.

Mr. SHERMAN concurred in the opinion that an address was both
unnecessary and improper.

On the motion of Mr. Carrol

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay. N.
C. [*2] abst. S. C. [*2] no. Geo. no [3]

Mr. LANGDON. Some gentlemen have been very uneasy that no increase of
the number of Representatives has been admitted. It has in particular
been thought that one more ought to be allowed to N. Carolina. He was of
opinion that an additional one was due both to that State & to Rho:
Island, & moved to reconsider for that purpose.

Mr. SHERMAN. When the Committee of eleven reported the apportionment --
five Representatives were thought the proper share of N. Carolina.
Subsequent information however seemed to entitle that State to another.

On the motion to reconsider

N. H. ay. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. no. Pen. divd. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay.
N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [4]

Mr. LANGDON moved to add 1 member to each of the Representations of N.
Carolina & Rho: Island.

Mr. KING was agst. any change whatever as opening the door for delays.
There had been no official proof that the numbers of N. C. are greater
than before estimated, and he never could sign the Constitution if Rho:
Island is so be allowed two members that is, one fourth of the number
allowed to Massts, which will be known to be unjust.

Mr. PINKNEY urged the propriety of increasing the number of Reps.
allotted to N. Carolina.

Mr. BEDFORD contended for an increase in favor of Rho: Island, and of
Delaware also

On the question for allowing two Reps. to Rho: Island, it passed in the
negative

N. H. ay. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. no. N.
C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. ay. [5]

On the question for allowing six to N. Carolina, it passed in the
negative.

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay. N.
C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [6]

Art 1. Sect. 10. (paragraph 2). "No State shall, without the consent of
Congress lay imposts or duties on imports or exports; nor with such
consent, but to the use of the Treasury of the U. States."

In consequence of the proviso moved by Col: Mason: and agreed to on the
13 [7] Sepr., this part of the section was laid aside in favor of the
following substitute viz. "No State shall, without the consent of
Congress, lay any imposts or duties on imports or exports, except what
may be absolutely necessary for executing its Inspection laws; and the
nett produce of all duties and imposts, laid by any State on imports or
exports, shall be for the use of the Treasury of the U. S; and all such
laws shall be subject to the revision and controul of the Congress"

On a motion to strike out the last part "and all such laws shall be
subject to the revision and controul of the Congress" it passed in the
negative.

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. divd. Del. no. Md. no. Va. ay.
N. C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. ay. [8]

The substitute was then agreed to: Virga. alone being in the negative.

The remainder of the paragraph being under consideration -- viz -- "nor
keep troops nor ships of war in time of peace, nor enter into any
agreement or compact with another State, nor with any foreign power. Nor
engage in any war, unless it shall be actually invaded by enemies, or
the danger of invasion be so imminent as not to admit of delay, until
Congress can be consulted"

Mr. Mc.HENRY & Mr. CARROL moved that "no State shall be restrained from
laying duties of tonnage for the purpose of clearing harbours and
erecting light-houses."

Col. MASON in support of this explained and urged the situation of the
Chesapeak which peculiarly required expences of this sort.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. The States are not restrained from laying tonnage as
the Constitution now Stands. The exception proposed will imply the
contrary, and will put the States in a worse condition than the
gentleman [Col Mason] wishes.

Mr. MADISON. Whether the States are now restrained from laying tonnage
duties depends on the extent of the power "to regulate commerce." These
terms are vague, but seem to exclude this power of the States. They may
certainly be restrained by Treaty. He observed that there were other
objects for tonnage Duties as the support of Seamen &c. He was more &
more convinced that the regulation of Commerce was in its nature
indivisible and ought to be wholly under one authority.

Mr. SHERMAN. The power of the U. States to regulate trade being supreme
can controul interferences of the State regulations when [9] such
interferences happen; so that there is no danger to be apprehended from
a concurrent jurisdiction.

Mr. LANGDON insisted that the regulation of tonnage was an essential
part of the regulation of trade, and that the States ought to have
nothing to do with it. On motion "that no State shall lay any duty on
tonnage without the Consent of Congress"

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. divd. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. no.
N. C. no. S. C. ay. Geo. no. [10]

The remainder of the paragraph was then remoulded and passed as follows
viz -- "No State shall without the consent of Congress, lay any duty of
tonnage, keep troops or ships of war in time of peace, enter into any
agreement or compact with another State, or with a foreign power, or
engage in war, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent danger as
will not admit of delay."

[11] Art II. sect. 1. (paragraph 6) "or the period for chusing another
president arrive" was changed into "or a President shall be elected"
conformably to a vote of the _____ day of 

Mr. RUTLIDGE and DOCr. FRANKLIN moved to annex to the end of paragraph
7. Sect. 1. art II -- "and he [the President] shall not receive, within
that period, any other emolument from the U. S. or any of them," on
which question

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay. N.
C. no. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [12]

Art: II. Sect. 2. "he shall have power to grant reprieves and pardons
for offences against the U. S. &c"

Mr. RANDOLPH moved to "except cases of treason." The prerogative of
pardon in these cases was too great a trust. The President may himself
be guilty. The Traytors may be his own instruments.

Col: MASON supported the motion.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS had rather there should be no pardon for treason, than
let the power devolve on the Legislature.

Mr. WILSON. Pardon is necessary for cases of treason, and is best placed
in the hands of the Executive. If he be himself a party to the guilt he
can be impeached and prosecuted.

Mr. KING thought it would be inconsistent with the Constitutional
separation of the Executive & Legislative powers to let the prerogative
be exercised by the latter. A Legislative body is utterly unfit for the
purpose. They are governed too much by the passions of the moment. In
Massachussets, one assembly would have hung all the insurgents in that
State: the next was equally disposed to pardon them all. He suggested
the expedient of requiring the concurrence of the Senate in Acts of
Pardon.

Mr. MADISON admitted the force of objections to the Legislature, but the
pardon of treasons was so peculiarly improper for the President that he
should acquiesce in the transfer of it to the former, rather than leave
it altogether in the hands of the latter. He would prefer to either an
association of the Senate as a Council of advice, with the President.

Mr. RANDOLPH could not admit the Senate into a share of the Power. the
great danger to liberty lay in a combination between the President &
that body.

Col: MASON. The Senate has already too much power. There can be no
danger of too much lenity in legislative pardons, as the Senate must con
concur, & the President moreover can require 2/3 of both Houses.

On the motion of Mr. Randolph.

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. divd. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. ay.
N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. ay. [13]

Art II. Sect. 2. (paragraph 2) To the end of this, Mr. GOVERNr. MORRIS
moved to annex "but the Congress may by law vest the appointment of such
inferior officers as they think proper, in the President alone, in the
Courts of law, or in the heads of Departments."

Mr. SHERMAN 2ded. the motion.

Mr. MADISON. It does not go far enough if it be necessary at all.
Superior officers below Heads of Departments ought in some cases to have
the appointment of the lesser offices.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS There is no necessity. Blank commissions can be sent --

On the motion

N. H. ay. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. divd. Va. no.
N. C. ay. S C no. Geo. no. [14]

The motion being lost by the [15] equal division of votes, It was urged
that it be put a second time, some such provision being too necessary to
be omitted, and on a second question it was agreed to nem. con.

Art II. Sect. 1. The words, "and not per capita" -- were struck out as
superfluous -- and the words "by the Representatives" also -- as
improper, the choice of a [16] President being in another mode as well
as eventually by the House of Reps.

Art. II. Sect. 2. After [17] "officers of the U. S. whose appointments
are not otherwise provided for." were added the words "and which shall
be established by law."

Art III. Sect. 2. parag: 3. Mr. PINKNEY & Mr. GERRY moved to annex to
the end, "And a trial by jury shall be preserved as usual in civil
cases."

Mr. GORHAM. The constitution of Juries is different in different States
and the trial itself is usual in different cases in different States.

Mr. KING urged the same objections

Genl. PINKNEY also. He thought such a clause in the Constitution would
be pregnant with embarrassments. The motion was disagreed to nem: con:

Art. IV. Sect 2. parag: 3. the term "legally" was struck out, and [18]
"under the laws thereof" inserted after the word "State," in compliance
with the wish of some who thought the term legal [19] equivocal, and
favoring the idea that slavery was legal in a moral view.

Art. IV. Sect 3. "New States may be admitted by the Congress into this
Union: but no new State shall be formed or erected within the
jurisdiction of any other State; nor any State be formed by the junction
of two or more States, or parts of States, without the consent of the
Legislatures of the States concerned as well as of the Congs"

Mr. GERRY moved to insert after "or parts of States" the words "or a
State and part of a State" which was disagreed to by a large majority;
it appearing to be supposed that the case was comprehended in the words
of the clause as reported by the Committee.

Art. IV. Sect. 4. After the word "Executive" were inserted the words
"when the Legislature can not be convened."

Art. V. "The Congress, whenever two thirds of both Houses shall deem
necessary, or on the application of two thirds of the Legislatures of
the several States shall propose amendments to this Constitution, which
shall be valid to all intents and purposes as part thereof, when the
same shall have been ratified by three fourths at least of the
Legislatures of the several States, or by Conventions in three fourths
thereof, as the one or the other mode of ratification may be proposed by
the Congress: Provided that no amendment which may be made prior to the
year 1808 shall in any manner affect the 1 & 4 clauses in the 9. section
of article 1"

Mr. SHERMAN expressed his fears that three fourths of the States might
be brought to do things fatal to particular States, as abolishing them
altogether or depriving them of their equality in the Senate. He thought
it reasonable that the proviso in favor of the States importing slaves
should be extended so as to provide that no State should be affected in
its internal police, or deprived of its equality in the Senate.

Col: MASON thought the plan of amending the Constitution exceptionable &
dangerous. As the proposing of amendments is in both the modes to
depend, in the first immediately, in the second, ultimately, on
Congress, no amendments of the proper kind would ever be obtained by the
people, if the Government should become oppressive, as he verily
believed would be the case.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS & Mr. GERRY moved to amend the article so as to require
a Convention on application of 2/3 of the Sts.

Mr. MADISON did not see why Congress would not be as much bound to
propose amendments applied for by two thirds of the States as to call a
call a Convention on the like application. He saw no objection however
against providing for a Convention for the purpose of amendments, except
only that difficulties might arise as to the form, the quorum &c. which
in Constitutional regulations ought to be as much as possible avoided.

The motion of Mr. GOVr. MORRIS & Mr. GERRY was agreed to nem: con: [see
the first part of the article as finally past] [20]

Mr. SHERMAN moved to strike out of art. V. after "legislatures" the
words "of three fourths" and so after the word "Conventions" leaving
future Conventions to act in this matter, like the present Conventions
[21] according to circumstances.

On this motion

N. H. divd. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no.
N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [22]

Mr. GERRY moved to strike out the words "or by Conventions in three
fourths thereof"

On this [23] motion

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [24]

Mr. SHERMAN moved according to his idea above expressed to annex to the
end of the article a further proviso "that no State shall without its
consent be affected in its internal police, or deprived of its equal
suffrage in the Senate."

Mr. MADISON. Begin with these special provisos, and every State will
insist on them, for their boundaries, exports &c. 

On the motion of Mr. Sherman

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. no. Va. no. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [25]

Mr. SHERMAN then moved to strike out art V altogether.

Mr. BREARLEY 2ded. the motion, on which

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del divd. Md. no. Va. no.
N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [26]

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved to annex a further proviso -- "that no State,
without its consent shall be deprived of its equal suffrage in the
Senate"

This motion being dictated by the circulating murmurs of the small
States was agreed to without debate, no one opposing it, or on the
question, saying no.

Col: MASON expressing his discontent at the power given to Congress by a
bare majority to pass navigation acts, which he said would not only
enhance the freight, a consequence he did not so much regard -- but
would enable a few rich merchants in Philada N. York & Boston, to
monopolize the Staples of the Southern States & reduce their value
perhaps 50 Per Ct. -- moved a further proviso "that no law in [27]
nature of a navigation act be passed before the year 1808, without the
consent of 2/3 of each branch of the Legislature"

On this [28] motion

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay. N.
C. abst. S. C. no. Geo. ay. [29]

Mr. RANDOLPH animadverting on the indefinite and dangerous power given
by the Constitution to Congress, expressing the pain he felt at
differing from the body of the Convention, on the close of the great &
awful subject of their labours, and anxiously wishing for some
accomodating expedient which would relieve him from his embarrassments,
made a motion importing "that amendments to the plan might be offered by
the State Conventions, which should be submitted to and finally decided
on by another general Convention" Should this proposition be
disregarded, it would he said be impossible for him to put his name to
the instrument. Whether he should oppose it afterwards he would not then
decide but he would not deprive himself of the freedom to do so in his
own State, if that course should be prescribed by his final judgment.

Col: MASON 2ded. & followed Mr. Randolph in animadversions on the
dangerous power and structure of the Government, concluding that it
would end either in monarchy, or a tyrannical aristocracy; which, he was
in doubt, but one or other, he was sure. This Constitution had been
formed without the knowledge or idea of the people. A second Convention
will know more of the sense of the people, and be able to provide a
system more consonant to it. It was improper to say to the people, take
this or nothing. As the Constitution now stands, he could neither give
it his support or [30] vote in Virginia; and he could not sign here what
he could not support there. With the expedient of another Convention as
proposed, he could sign.

Mr. PINKNEY. These declarations from members so respectable at the close
of this important scene, give a peculiar solemnity to the present
moment. He descanted on the consequences of calling forth the
deliberations & amendments of the different States on the subject of
Government at large. Nothing but confusion & contrariety could [31]
spring from the experiment. The States will never agree in their plans,
and the Deputies to a second Convention coming together under the
discordant impressions of their Constituents, will never agree.
Conventions are serious things, and ought not to be repeated. He was not
without objections as well as others to the plan. He objected to the
contemptible weakness & dependence of the Executive. He objected to the
power of a majority only of Congs. over Commerce. But apprehending the
danger of a general confusion, and an ultimate decision by the sword, he
should give the plan his support.

Mr. GERRY, stated the objections which determined him to withhold his
name from the Constitution. 1. the duration and reeligibility of the
Senate. 2. the power of the House of Representatives to conceal their
journals. 3. the power of Congress over the places of election. 4 the
unlimited power of Congress over their own compensation. 5. [32]
Massachusetts has not a due share of Representatives allotted to her. 6.
[32] 3/5 of the Blacks are to be represented as if they were freemen. 7.
[32] Under the power over commerce, monopolies may be established. 8.
The vice president being made head of the Senate. He could however he
said get over all these, if the rights of the Citizens were not rendered
insecure 1. [33] by the general power of the Legislature to make what
laws they may please to call necessary and proper. 2. [34] raise armies
and money without limit. 3. [35] to establish a tribunal without juries,
which will be a Star-chamber as to Civil cases. Under such a view of the
Constitution, the best that could be done he conceived was to provide
for a second general Convention.

On the question on the proposition of Mr. Randolph. All the States
answered -- no

On the question to agree to the Constitution, as amended. All the States
ay.

The Constitution was then ordered to be engrossed.

And the House adjourned.

___________

1. The year "1787" is omitted in the transcript.

*2. In the printed Journal N. Carolina -- no & S.Carol: omitted.

3. In the transcript the vote reads: "Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland,
Virginia, aye -- 4; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
Jersey, South Carolina, [2] Georgia, no -- 6; North Carolina, [2]
absent."

4. In the transcript the vote reads: New Hampshire, Connecticut,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia,
aye -- 8; Massachusetts, New Jersey, no -- 2; Pennsylvania, divided.

5. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Delaware, Maryland,
North Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 5; Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Virginia, South Carolina, no -- 6."

6. In the transcript the vote reads: "Maryland, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 5; New Hampshire,
Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, no --
6."

7. The word "of" is here inserted in transcript.

8. In the transcript the vote reads: "Virginia, North Carolina, Georgia,
aye -- 3; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey,
Delaware, Maryland, South Carolina, no -- 7; Pennsylvania, divided."

9. In Madison's notes the word "when" is written above "which." The
transcript uses "when."

10. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New
Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, South Carolina, aye -- 6; Pennsylvania,
Virginia, North Carolina, Georgia, no -- 4; Connecticut, divided."

11. In the transcript this paragraph reads as follows: "article 2, sect.
I, (the sixth paragraph) the words 'or the period for choosing another
President arrive,' were changed into, 'or a President shall be elected,'
conformably to a vote of the seventh of September."

12. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 7;
Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware, Carolina, no -- 4."

13. In the transcript the vote reads: "Virginia, Georgia, aye -- 2; New
Hampshire, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland,
North Carolina, South Carolina, no -- 8; Connecticut, divided."

14. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Connecticut, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, aye -- 5; Massachusetts, Delaware,
Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 5; Maryland, divided."

15. The word "an" is substituted in the transcript for "the."

16. The word "a" is omitted in the transcript.

17. The expression "the words" is here inserted in the transcript.

18. The expression "the words" is here inserted in the transcript.

19. The transcript italicizes the word "legal."

20. Mardison's direction is omitted in the transcript.

21. The transcript uses the word "Conventions" in the singular.

22. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusette, Connecticut, New
Jersey, aye -- 3; Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 7; New Hampshire, divided."

23. The word "which" is substituted in the transcript for "this."

24. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, aye -- 1; New
Hampshire, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 10."

25. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New Jersey,
Delaware, aye -- 3; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania,
Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8."

26. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New Jersey, aye --
2; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8; Delaware, divided."

27. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

28. The word "which" is substituted in the transcript for "this."

29. In the transcript the vote reads: "Maryland, Virginia, Georgia, aye
-- 3; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, South Carolina, no -- 7; North Carolina,
absent."

30. The word "or" is changed in the transcript to "nor."

31. The word "will is substituted in the transcript for "could."

32. The word "that" is here inserted in the transcript.

33. The figure "1" is changed in the transcript to "first."

34. The figure "2" is changed in the transcript to "secondly, to."

35. The figure "3" is changed in the transcript to "thirdly."


