WEDNESDAY  AUGUST 22.   IN CONVENTION

Art VII sect 4. [1, 2] resumed. Mr. SHERMAN was for leaving the clause
as it stands. He disapproved of the slave trade; yet as the States were
now possessed of the right to import slaves, as the public good did not
require it to be taken from them, & as it was expedient to have as few
objections as possible to the proposed scheme of Government, he thought
it best to leave the matter as we find it. He observed that the
abolition of Slavery seemed to be going on in the U. S. & that the good
sense of the several States would probably by degrees compleat it. He
urged on the Convention the necessity of despatching its business.

Col. MASON. This infernal trafic originated in the avarice of British
Merchants. The British Govt. constantly checked the attempts of Virginia
to put a stop to it. The present question concerns not the importing
States alone but the whole Union. The evil of having slaves was
experienced during the late war. Had slaves been treated as they might
have been by the Enemy, they would have proved dangerous instruments in
their hands. But their folly dealt by the slaves, as it did by the
Tories. He mentioned the dangerous insurrections of the slaves in Greece
and Sicily; and the instructions given by Cromwell to the Commissioners
sent to Virginia, to arm the servants & slaves, in case other means of
obtaining its submission should fail. Maryland & Virginia he said had
already prohibited the importation of slaves expressly. N. Carolina had
done the same in substance. All this would be in vain if S. Carolina &
Georgia be at liberty to import. The Western people are already calling
out for slaves for their new lands, and will fill that Country with
slaves if they can be got thro' S. Carolina & Georgia. Slavery
discourages arts & manufactures. The poor despise labor when performed
by slaves. They prevent the immigration of Whites, who really enrich &
strengthen a Country. They produce the most pernicious effect on
manners. Every master of slaves is born a petty tyrant. They bring the
judgment of heaven on a Country. As nations can not be rewarded or
punished in the next world they must be in this. By an inevitable chain
of causes & effects providence punishes national sins, by national
calamities. He lamented that some of our Eastern brethren had from a
lust of gain embarked in this nefarious traffic. As to the States being
in possession of the Right to import, this was the case with many other
rights, now to be properly given up. He held it essential in every point
of view that the Genl. Govt. should have power to prevent the increase
of slavery.

Mr. ELSWORTH. As he had never owned a slave could not judge of the
effects of slavery on character: He said however that if it was to be
considered in a moral light we ought to go farther and free those
already in the Country. -- As slaves also multiply so fast in Virginia &
& Maryland that it is cheaper to raise than import them, whilst in the
sickly rice swamps foreign supplies are necessary, if we go no farther
than is urged, we shall be unjust towards S. Carolina & Georgia. Let us
not intermeddle. As population increases poor laborers will be so plenty
as to render slaves useless. Slavery in time will not be a speck in our
Country. Provision is already made in Connecticut for abolishing it. And
the abolition has already taken place in Massachusetts. As to the danger
of insurrections from foreign influence, that will become a motive to
kind treatment of the slaves.

Mr. PINKNEY. If slavery be wrong, it is justified by the example of all
the world. He cited the case of Greece Rome & other antient States; the
sanction given by France England, Holland & other modern States. In all
ages one half of mankind have been slaves. If the S. States were let
alone they will probably of themselves stop importations. He wd. himself
as a Citizen of S. Carolina vote for it. An attempt to take away the
right as proposed will produce serious objections to the Constitution
which he wished to see adopted.

General PINKNEY declared it to be his firm opinion that if himself & all
his colleagues were to sign the Constitution & use their personal
influence, it would be of no avail towards obtaining the assent of their
Constituents. S. Carolina & Georgia cannot do without slaves. As to
Virginia she will gain by stopping the importations. Her slaves will
rise in value, & she has more than she wants. It would be unequal to
require S. C. & Georgia to confederate on such unequal terms. He said
the Royal assent before the Revolution had never been refused to S.
Carolina as to Virginia. He contended that the importation of slaves
would be for the interest of the whole Union. The more slaves, the more
produce to employ the carrying trade; The more consumption also, and the
more of this, the more of revenue for the common treasury. He admitted
it to be reasonable that slaves should be dutied like other imports, but
should consider a rejection of the clause as an exclusion of S. Carola.
from the Union.

Mr. BALDWIN had conceived national objects alone to be before the
Convention, not such as like the present were of a local nature. Georgia
was decided on this point. That State has always hitherto supposed a
Genl. Governmt. to be the pursuit of the central States who wished to
have a vortex for every thing -- that her distance would preclude her
from equal advantage -- & that she could not prudently purchase it by
yielding national powers. From this it might be understood in what light
she would view an attempt to abridge one of her favorite prerogatives.
If left to herself, she may probably put a stop to the evil. As one
ground for this conjecture, he took notice of the sect of ______ which
he said was a respectable class of people, who carried their ethics
beyond the mere equality of men, extending their humanity to the claims
of the whole animal creation.

Mr. WILSON observed that if S. C. & Georgia were themselves disposed to
get rid of the importation of slaves in a short time as had been
suggested, they would never refuse to Unite because the importation
might be prohibited. As the Section now stands all articles imported are
to be taxed. Slaves alone are exempt. This is in fact a bounty on that
article.

Mr. GERRY thought we had nothing to do with the conduct of the States as
to Slaves, but ought to be careful not to give any sanction to it.

Mr. DICKENSON considered it as inadmissible on every principle of honor
& safety that the importation of slaves should be authorised to the
States by the Constitution. The true question was whether the national
happiness would be promoted or impeded by the importation, and this
question ought to be left to the National Govt. not to the States
particularly interested. If Engd. & France permit slavery, slaves are at
the same time excluded from both those Kingdoms. Greece and Rome were
made unhappy by their slaves. He could not believe that the Southn.
States would refuse to confederate on the account apprehended;
especially as the power was not likely to be immediately exercised by
the Genl. Government.

Mr. WILLIAMSON stated the law of N. Carolina on the subject, to wit that
it did not directly prohibit the importation of slaves. It imposed a
duty of £5. on each slave imported from Africa. £10 on each from
elsewhere, & £50 on each from a State licensing manumission. He thought
the S. States could not be members of the Union if the clause shd. be
rejected, and that it was wrong to force any thing down, not absolutely
necessary, and which any State must disagree to.

Mr. KING thought the subject should be considered in a political light
only. If two States will not agree to the Constitution as stated on one
side, he could affirm with equal belief on the other, that great & equal
opposition would be experienced from the other States. He remarked on
the exemption of slaves from duty whilst every other import was
subjected to it, as an inequality that could not fail to strike the
commercial sagacity of the Northn. & middle States.

Mr. LANGDON was strenuous for giving the power to the Genl. Govt. He cd.
not with a good conscience leave it with the States who could then go on
with the traffic, without being restrained by the opinions here given
that they will themselves cease to import slaves.

Genl. PINKNEY thought himself bound to declare candidly that he did not
think S. Carolina would stop her importations of slaves in any short
time, but only stop them occasionally as she now does. He moved to
commit the clause that slaves might be made liable to an equal tax with
other imports which he he thought right & wch. wd. remove one difficulty
that had been started.

Mr. RUTLIDGE. If the Convention thinks that N. C. S. C. & Georgia will
ever agree to the plan, unless their right to import slaves be
untouched, the expectation is vain. The people of those States will
never be such fools as to give up so important an interest. He was
strenuous agst. striking out the Section, and seconded the motion of
Genl. Pinkney for a commitment.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS wished the whole subject to be committed including the
clauses relating to taxes on exports & to a navigation act. These things
may form a bargain among the Northern & Southern States.

Mr. BUTLER declared that he never would agree to the power of taxing
exports.

Mr. SHERMAN said it was better to let the S. States import slaves than
to part with them, if they made that a sine qua non. He was opposed to a
tax on slaves imported as making the matter worse, because it implied
they were property. He acknowledged that if the power of prohibiting the
importation should be given to the Genl. Government that it would be
exercised. He thought it would be its duty to exercise the power.

Mr. READ was for the commitment provided the clause concerning taxes on
exports should also be committed.

Mr. SHERMAN observed that that clause had been agreed to & therefore
could not [3] committed.

Mr. RANDOLPH was for committing in order that some middle ground might,
if possible, be found. He could never agree to the clause as it stands.
He wd. sooner risk the constitution. He dwelt on the dilemma to which
the Convention was exposed. By agreeing to the clause, it would revolt
the Quakers, the Methodists, and many others in the States having no
slaves. On the other hand, two States might be lost to the Union. Let us
then, he said, try the chance of a commitment.

On the question for committing the remaining part of Sect. 4 & 5. [4] of
art: 7. N. H. no. Mas. abst. Cont. ay N. J. ay Pa. no. Del. no Maryd.
ay. Va. ay. N. C. ay S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [5]

Mr. PINKNEY & Mr. LANGDON moved to commit Sect. 6. [4] as to [6]
navigation act by two thirds of each House

Mr. GORHAM did not see the propriety of it. Is it meant to require a
greater proportion of votes? He desired it to be remembered that the
Eastern States had no motive to Union but a commercial one. They were
able to protect themselves. They were not afraid of external danger, and
did not need the aid of the Southn. States.

Mr. WILSON wished for a commitment in order to reduce the proportion of
votes required.

Mr. ELSWORTH was for taking the plan as it is. This widening of opinions
has [7] a threatening aspect. If we do not agree on this middle &
moderate ground he was afraid we should lose two States, with such
others as may be disposed to stand aloof, should fly into a variety of
shapes & directions, and most probably into several confederations and
not without bloodshed.

On [8] Question for committing [6] Sect. as to 6 navigation act to a
member from each State -- N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay.
Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [9]

The Committee appointed were Mr. Langdon, King, Johnson, Livingston,
Clymer, Dickenson, L. Martin, Madison, Williamson, C. C. Pinkney, &
Baldwin.

To this committee were referred also the two clauses abovementioned, of
the 4 & 5. Sect: of Art. 7.

Mr. RUTLIDGE, fron the Committee to whom were referred on the 18 & 20th.
instant the propositions of Mr. Madison & Mr. Pinkney, made the Report
following. -- 

[Here insert the Report from the Journal of the Convention of this
date.] [10]

["The committee report, that in their opinion the following additions
should be made to the report now before the convention namely,

"At the end of the first clause of the first section of the seventh
article add, 'for payment of the debts and necessary expenses of the
United States; provided that no law for raising any branch of revenue,
except what may be specially appropriated for the payment of interest on
debts or loans, shall continue in force for more than _____ years.'

"At the end of the second clause, second section, seventh article, add,
'and with Indians, within the limits of any state, not subject to the
laws thereof.'

"At the end of the sixteenth clause of the second section, seventh
article, add, 'and to provide, as may become necessary, from time to
time, for the well managing and securing the common property and general
interests and welfare of the United States in such manner as shall not
interfere with the governments of individual states, in matters which
respect only their internal police, or for which their individual
authorities [11] may be competent.'

"At the end of the first section, tenth article, add, 'he shall be of
the age of thirty five years, and a citizen of the United States, and
shall have been an inhabitant thereof for twenty one years.'

"After the second section of the tenth article, insert the following as
a third section:

'The President of the United States shall have a privy council, which
shall consist of the president of the senate, the speaker of the house
of representatives, the chief justice of the supreme court, and the
principal officer in the respective departments of foreign affairs,
domestic affairs, war, marine, and finance, as such departments of
office shall from time to time be established, whose duty it shall be to
advise him in matters respecting the execution of his office, which he
shall think proper to lay before them: but their advice shall not
conclude him, nor affect his responsibility for the measures which he
shall adopt.'

"At the end of the second section of the eleventh article, add, 'the
judges of the supreme court shall be triable by the senate, on
impeachment by the house of representatives.'

"Between the fourth and fifth lines of the third section of the eleventh
article, after the word 'controversies,' insert 'between the United
States and an individual state, or the United States and an individual
person."'] [12]

A motion to rescind the order of the House respecting the hours of
meeting & adjourning, was negatived:

    Mass: Pa. Del. Mard. ................ ay [13]
    N. H. Con: N. J. Va. N. C. S. C. Geo. no [14]


Mr. GERRY & Mr. Mc.HENRY moved to insert after the 2d. sect. [15] Art:
7, the Clause following, to wit, "The Legislature shall pass no bill of
attainder nor any ex post facto law." [16]

Mr. GERRY urged the necessity of this prohibition, which he said was
greater in the National than the State Legislature, because the number
of members in the former being fewer [17] were on that account the more
to be feared.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS thought the precaution as to ex post facto laws
unnecessary; but essential as to bills of attainder

Mr. ELSEWORTH contended that there was no lawyer, no civilian who would
not say that ex post facto laws were void of themselves. It can not then
be necessary to prohibit them.

Mr. WILSON was against inserting any thing in the Constitution as to ex
post facto laws. It will bring reflexions on theConstitution -- and
proclaim that we are ignorant of the first principles of Legislation, or
are constituting a Government which [18] will be so.

The question being divided, The first part of the motion relating to
bills of attainder was agreed to nem. contradicente.

On the second part relating to ex post facto laws -- 

Mr. CARROL remarked that experience overruled all other calculations. It
had proved that in whatever light they might be viewed by civilians or
others, the State Legislatures had passed them, and they had taken
effect.

Mr. WILSON. If these prohibitions in the State Constitutions have no
effect, it will be useless to insert them in this Constitution. Besides,
both sides will agree to the principle, & [19] will differ as to its
application.

Mr. WILLIAMSON. Such a prohibitory clause is in the Constitution of N.
Carolina, and tho it has been violated, it has done good there & may do
good here, because the Judges can take hold of it.

DOCr. JOHNSON thought the clause unnecessary, and implying an improper
suspicion of the National Legislature.

Mr. RUTLIDGE was in favor of the clause. On the question for inserting
the prohibition of ex post facto laws.

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Cont. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. ay. Virga.
ay N. C. divd. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [20]

The report of the committee of 5. made by Mr. Rutlidge, was taken up &
then postponed that each member might furnish himself with a copy.

The Report of the Committee of Eleven delivered in & entered on the
Journal of the 21st. inst. was then taken up. and the first clause
containing the words "The Legislature of the U. S. shall have power to
fulfil the engagements which have been entered into by Congress" being
under consideration,

Mr. ELSWORTH argued that they were unnecessary. The U. S. heretofore
entered into Engagements by Congs. who were their agents. They will
hereafter be bound to fulfil them by their new agents.

Mr. RANDOLPH thought such a provision necessary: for though the U.
States will be bound, the new Govt. will have no authority in the case
unless it be given to them.

Mr. MADISON thought it necessary to give the authority in order to
prevent misconstruction. He mentioned the attempts made by the Debtors
to British subjects to shew that contracts under the old Government,
were dissolved by the Revolution which destroyed the political identity
of the Society.

Mr. GERRY thought it essential that some explicit provision should be
made on this subject, so that no pretext might remain for getting rid of
the public engagements.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved by way of amendment to substitute -- "The
Legislature shall discharge the debts & fulfil the engagements, of the
U. States."

It was moved to vary the amendment by striking out "discharge the debts"
& to insert "liquidate the claims," which being negatived,

The amendment moved by Mr. Govr. Morris was agreed to all the States
being in the affirmative.

It was moved & 2ded. to strike the following words out of the 2d. clause
of the report "and the authority of training the Militia according to
the discipline prescribed by the U. S." Before a question was taken

The House adjourned

___________

1. See ante.

2. The word "was" is here inserted in the transcript.

3. The word "be" is here inserted in the transcript.

4. See ante.

5. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New Jersey, Maryland,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 7; New
Hampshire, Pennyslvania, Delaware, no -- 3; Massachusetts, absent."

6. The word "a" is here inserted in the transcript.

7. The word "had" is substituted in the transcript for "has."

8. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

9. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, aye -- 9;
Connecticut, New Jersey, no -- 2.'

10. Madison's direction is omitted in the transcript.

11. The transcript uses the word "authorities" in the singular.

12. Journal, Acts and Proceedings of the Convention ... which formed
the Constitution of the United States (1819), p. 277.

13. The figure "4" is here inserted in the transcript.

14. The figure "7" is here inserted in the transcript.

15. The word "of" is here inserted in the transcript.

16. The proceedings on this motion involving the two questions on
"attainders & ex post facto laws," are not so fully stated in the
Printed Journal.

17. The word "they" is here inserted in the transcript.

18. The word "that" is substituted in the transcript for "which."

19. The word "but" is substituted in the transcript for "&."

20. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 7;
Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, no -- 3; North Carolina,
divided."


