THURSDAY.  JULY 19.   IN CONVENTION

On reconsideration of the vote rendering the Executive re-eligible a 2d.
time, Mr. MARTIN moved to reinstate the words, "to be ineligible a 2d.
time."

Mr. GOVERNEUR MORRIS. It is necessary to take into one view all that
relates to the establishment of the Executive; on the due formation of
which must depend the efficacy & utility of the Union among the present
and future States. It has been a maxim in Political Science that
Republican Government is not adapted to a large extent of Country,
because the energy of the Executive Magistracy can not reach the extreme
parts of it. Our Country is an extensive one. We must either then
renounce the blessings of the Union, or provide an Executive with
sufficient vigor to pervade every part of it. This subject was of so
much importance that he hoped to be indulged in an extensive view of it.
One great object of the Executive is to controul the Legislature. The
Legislature will continually seek to aggrandize & perpetuate themselves;
and will seize those critical moments produced by war, invasion or
convulsion for that purpose. It is necessary then that the Executive
Magistrate should be the guardian of the people, even of the lower
classes, agst. Legislative tyranny, against the Great & the wealthy who
in the course of things will necessarily compose the Legislative body.
Wealth tends to corrupt the mind & [1] to nourish its love of power, and
to stimulate it to oppression. History proves this to be the spirit of
the opulent. The check provided in the 2d. branch was not meant as a
check on Legislative usurpations of power, but on the abuse of lawful
powers, on the propensity in [2] the 1st. branch to legislate too much
to run into projects of paper money & similar expedients. It is no check
on Legislative tyranny. On the contrary it may favor it, and if the 1st.
branch can be seduced may find the means of success. The Executive
therefore ought to be so constituted as to be the great protector of the
Mass of the people. -- It is the duty of the Executive to appoint the
officers & to command the forces of the Republic: to appoint 1. [3]
ministerial officers for the administration of public affairs. 2. [3]
officers for the dispensation of Justice. Who will be the best Judges
whether these appointments be well made? The people at large, who will
know, will see, will feel the effects of them. Again who can judge so
well of the discharge of military duties for the protection & security
of the people, as the people themselves who are to be protected &
secured? -- He finds too that the Executive is not to be re-eligible.
What effect will this have?

1. [4] it will destroy the great incitement to merit public esteem by
taking away the hope of being rewarded with a reappointment. It may give
a dangerous turn to one of the strongest passions in the human breast.
The love of fame is the great spring to noble & illustrious actions.
Shut the Civil road to Glory & he may be compelled to seek it by the
sword.

2. [5] It will tempt him to make the most of the short space of time
allotted him, to accumulate wealth and provide for his friends.

3. [6] It will produce violations of the very constitution it is meant
to secure. In moments of pressing danger the tried abilities and
established character of a favorite Magistrate will prevail over respect
for the forms of the Constitution. The Executive is also to be
impeachable. This is a dangerous part of the plan. It will hold him in
such dependence that he will be no check on the Legislature, will not be
a firm guardian of the people and of the public interest. He will be the
tool of a faction, of some leading demagogue in the Legislature. These
then are the faults of the Executive establishment as now proposed. Can
no better establishmt. be devised? If he is to be the Guardian of the
people let him be appointed by the people? If he is to be a check on the
Legislature let him not be impeachable. Let him be of short duration,
that he may with propriety be re-eligible. It has been said that the
candidates for this office will not be known to the people. If they be
known to the Legislature, they must have such a notoriety and eminence
of Character, that they can not possibly be unknown to the people at
large. It cannot be possible that a man shall have sufficiently
distinguished himself to merit this high trust without having his
character proclaimed by fame throughout the Empire. As to the danger
from an unimpeachable magistrate he could not regard it as formidable.
There must be certain great officers of State; a minister of finance, of
war, of foreign affairs &c. These he presumes will exercise their
functions in subordination to the Executive, and will be amenable by
impeachment to the public Justice. Without these ministers the Executive
can do nothing of consequence. He suggested a biennial election of the
Executive at the time of electing the 1st. branch, and the Executive to
hold over, so as to prevent any interregnum in the administration. An
election by the people at large throughout so great an extent of country
could not be influenced, by those little combinations and those
momentary lies which often decide popular elections within a narrow
sphere. It will probably, be objected that the election will be
influenced by the members of the Legislature; particularly of the 1st.
branch, and that it will be nearly the same thing with an election by
the Legislature itself. It could not be denied that such an influence
would exist. But it might be answered that as the Legislature or the
candidates for it would be divided, the enmity of one part would
counteract the friendship of another: that if the administration of the
Executive were good, it would be unpopular to oppose his reelection, if
bad it ought to be opposed & a reappointmt. prevented; and lastly that
in every view this indirect dependence on the favor of the Legislature
could not be so mischievous as a direct dependence for his appointment.
He saw no alternative for making the Executive independent of the
Legislature but either to give him his office for life, or make him
eligible by the people -- Again, it might be objected that two years
would be too short a duration. But he believes that as long as he should
behave himself well, he would be continued in his place. The extent of
the Country would secure his re-election agst. the factions &
discontents of particular States. It deserved consideration also that
such an ingredient in the plan would render it extremely palatable to
the people. These were the general ideas which occurred to him on the
subject, and which led him to wish & move that the whole constitution of
the Executive might undergo reconsideration.

Mr. RANDOLPH urged the motion of Mr. L. Martin for restoring the words
making the Executive ineligible a 2d. time. If he ought to be
independent, he should not be left under a temptation to court a
re-appointment. If he should be re-appointable by the Legislature, he
will be no check on it. His revisionary power will be of no avail. He
had always thought & contended as he still did that the danger
apprehended by the little States was chimerical; but those who thought
otherwise ought to be peculiarly anxious for the motion. If the
Executive be appointed, as has been determined, by the Legislature, he
will probably be appointed either by joint ballot of both houses, or be
nominated by the 1st. and appointed by the 2d. branch. In either case
the large States will preponderate. If he is to court the same influence
for his re-appointment, will he not make his revisionary power, and all
the other functions of his administration subservient to the views of
the large States. Besides, is there not great reason to apprehend that
in case he should be re-eligible, a false complaisance in the
Legislature might lead them to continue an unfit man in office in
preference to a fit one. It has been said that a constitutional bar to
reappointment will inspire unconstitutional endeavours to perpetuate
himself. It may be answered that his endeavours can have no effect
unless the people be corrupt to such a degree as to render all
precautions hopeless: to which may be added that this argument supposes
him to be more powerful & dangerous, than other arguments which have
been used, admit, and consequently calls for stronger fetters on his
authority. He thought an election by the Legislature with an incapacity
to be elected a second time would be more acceptable to the people that
[7] the plan suggested by Mr. Govr. Morris.

Mr. KING. did not like the ineligibility. He thought there was great
force in the remark [8] of Mr. Sherman, that he who has proved himself
to be [9] most fit for an Office, ought not to be excluded by the
constitution from holding it. He would therefore prefer any other
reasonable plan that could be substituted. He was much disposed to think
that in such cases the people at large would chuse wisely. There was
indeed some difficulty arising from the improbability of a general
concurrence of the people in favor of any one man. On the whole he was
of opinion that an appointment by electors chosen by the people for the
purpose, would be liable to fewest objections.

Mr. PATTERSON's ideas nearly coincided he said with those of Mr. King.
He proposed that the Executive should be appointed by Electors to be
chosen by the States in a ratio that would allow one elector to the
smallest and three to the largest States. Mr. WILSON. It seems to be the
unanimous sense that the Executive should not be appointed by the
Legislature, unless he be rendered in-eligible a 2d. time: he perceived
with pleasure that the idea was gaining ground, of an election mediately
or immediately by the people.

Mr. MADISON. If it be a fundamental principle of free Govt. that the
Legislative, Executive & Judiciary powers should be separately
exercised, it is equally so that they be independently exercised. There
is the same & perhaps greater reason why the Executive shd. be
independent of the Legislature, than why the Judiciary should: A
coalition of the two former powers would be more immediately & certainly
dangerous to public liberty. It is essential then that the appointment
of the Executive should either be drawn from some source, or held by
some tenure, that will give him a free agency with regard to the
Legislature. This could not be if he was to be appointable from time to
time by the Legislature. It was not clear that an appointment in the
1st. instance even with an eligibility afterwards would not establish an
improper connection between the two departments. Certain it was that the
appointment would be attended with intrigues and contentions that ought
not to be unnecessarily admitted. He was disposed for these reasons to
refer the appointment to some other source. The people at large was in
his opinion the fittest in itself. It would be as likely as any that
could be devised to produce an Executive Magistrate of distinguished
Character. The people generally could only know & vote for some Citizen
whose merits had rendered him an object of general attention & esteem.
There was one difficulty however of a serious nature attending an
immediate choice by the people. The right of suffrage was much more
diffusive in the Northern than the Southern States; and the latter could
have no influence in the election on the score of the Negroes. The
substitution of electors obviated this difficulty and seemed on the
whole to be liable to fewest objections.

Mr. GERRY. If the Executive is to be elected by the Legislature he
certainly ought not to be re-eligible. This would make him absolutely
dependent. He was agst. a popular election. The people are uninformed,
and would be misled by a few designing men. He urged the expediency of
an appointment of the Executive by Electors to be chosen by the State
Executives. The people of the States will then choose the 1st. branch:
The legislatures of the States the 2d. branch of the National
Legislature, and the Executives of the States, the National Executive.
This he thought would form a strong attachnt. in the States to the
National System. The popular mode of electing the chief Magistrate would
certainly be the worst of all. If he should be so elected & should do
his duty, he will be turned out for it like Govr. Bowdoin in Massts. &
President Sullivan in N. Hamshire.

On the question on Mr. Govr. Morris motion to reconsider generally the
constitution of the Executive. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. N. J. ay & all the
others ay. [10]

Mr. ELSEWORTH moved to strike out the appointmt. by the Natl.
Legislature, and [11] insert "to be chosen by electors appointed, by the
Legislatures of the States in the following ratio; towit -- one for each
State not exceeding 200,000 inhabts. two for each above yt. number & not
exceeding 300,000. and three for each State exceeding 300,000.

Mr. BROOME 2ded. the motion

Mr. RUTLIDGE was opposed to all the modes except the appointmt. by the
Natl. Legislature. He will be sufficiently independent, if he be not
re-eligible.

Mr. GERRY preferred the motion of Mr. Elseworth to an appointmt. by the
Natl. Legislature, or by the people; tho' not to an appt. by the State
Executives. He moved that the electors proposed by Mr. E. should be 25
in number, and allotted in the following proportion. to N. H. 1. to Mas.
3. to R. I. 1. to Cont. 2. to N. Y. 2. [12] N. J. 2. [12] Pa. 3. [12]
Del. 1. [12] Md. 2. [12] Va. 3. [12] N. C. 2. [12] S. C. 2. [12] Geo. 1.

The question as moved by Mr. Elseworth being divided, on the 1st. part
shall ye. Natl. Executive be appointed by Electors? Mas. divd. Cont. ay.
N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay. N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no.
[13]

On [14] 2d. part shall the Electors be chosen by [14] State
Legislatures? Mas. ay. Cont. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va.
no. N. C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. ay. [15]

The part relating to the ratio in which the States sd. chuse electors
was postponed nem. con.

Mr. L. MARTIN moved that the Executive be ineligible a 2d. time.

Mr. WILLIAMSON 2ds. the motion. He had no great confidence in the
Electors to be chosen for the special purpose. They would not be the
most respectable citizens; but persons not occupied in the high offices
of Govt. They would be liable to undue influence, which might the more
readily be practised as some of them will probably be in appointment 6
or 8 months before the object of it comes on.

Mr. ELSEWORTH supposed any persons might be appointed Electors,
excepting [16] solely, members of the Natl. Legislature.

On the question shall he be ineligible a 2d. time? Mas. no. Ct. no. N.
J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. no.
[17]

On the question Shall the Executive continue for 7 years? It passed in
the negative Mas. divd. Cont. ay. [*18] N. J. no. [*18] Pa. no. Del. no.
Md. no. Va. no. N. C. divd. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [19]

Mr. KING was afraid we shd. shorten the term too much.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS was for a short term, in order to avoid impeachts.
which wd.. be otherwise necessary.

Mr. BUTLER was agst. a [20] frequency of the elections. Geo. & S. C.
were too distant to send electors often.

Mr. ELSEWORTH was for 6. years. If the elections be too frequent, the
Executive will not be firm eno'. There must be duties which will make
him unpopular for the moment. There will be outs as well as ins. His
administration therefore will be attacked and misrepresented.

Mr. WILLIAMSON was for 6 years. The expence will be considerable & ought
not to be unnecessarily repeated. If the Elections are too frequent, the
best men will not undertake the service and those of an inferior
character will be liable to be corrupted.

On [21] question for 6 years? Mas. ay. Cont. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del.
no. Md. ay. Va. ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [22] 

Adjourned

___________

1. The word "and" is crossed out in the transcript.

2. The word "of" is substituted in the transcript for "in."

3. The figures "1" and "2" are changed to "first" and "secondly" in the
transcript.

4. The figure "1" is changed to "In the first place" in the transcript.

5. The figure "2" is changed to "In the second place" in the transcript.

6. The figure "3" is changed to "In the third place" in the transcript.

7. The word "that" is changed to "than" in the transcript.

8. The word "remark" is used in the plural in the transcript.

9. The words "to be" are omitted in the transcript.

10. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
Jersey, and all the others, aye."

11. The word "to" is here inserted in the transcript.

12. The word "to" is here inserted in the transcript.

13. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, aye -- 6; North Carolina,
South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 3; Massachusetts, divided."

14. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

15. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina, Georgia, aye
-- 8; Virginia, South Carolina, no -- 2."

16. The word "except" is substituted in the transcript for "excepting."

17. In the transcript the vote reads: "North Carolina, South Carolina,
aye -- 2; Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, Georgia, no -- 8."

*18. In the printed Journal Cont., no: N. Jersey ay

19. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, [18] South Carolina,
Georgia, aye -- 3; New Jersey, [18] Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland,
Virginia, no -- 5; Massachusetts, North Carolina, divided."

20. The word "the" is substituted in the transcript for "a."

21. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

22. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 9; Delaware, no."


