TUESDAY.  JUNE 26.   IN CONVENTION

The duration of the 2d. branch [1] under consideration.

Mr. GHORUM moved to fill the blank with "six years," one third of the
members to go out every second year.

Mr. WILSON 2ded. the motion.

Genl. PINKNEY opposed six years in favor of four years. The States he
said had different interests. Those of the Southern, and of S. Carolina
in particular were different from the Northern. If the Senators should
be appointed for a long term, they wd. settle in the State where they
exercised their functions; and would in a little time be rather the
representatives of that than of the State appointg. them.

Mr. READ movd. that the term be nine years. This wd. admit of a very
convenient rotation, one third going out triennially. He wd. still
prefer "during good behaviour," but being little supported in that idea,
he was willing to take the longest term that could be obtained.

Mr. BROOME 2ded. the motion.

Mr. MADISON. In order to judge of the form to be given to this
institution, it will be proper to take a view of the ends to be served
by it. These were first to protect the people agst. their rulers:
secondly to protect the people agst. the transient impressions into
which they themselves might be led. A people deliberating in a temperate
moment, and with the experience of other nations before them, on the
plan of Govt. most likely to secure their happiness, would first be
aware, that those chargd. with the public happiness, might betray their
trust. An obvious precaution agst. this danger wd. be to divide the
trust between different bodies of men, who might watch & check each
other. In this they wd. be governed by the same prudence which has
prevailed in organizing the subordinate departments of Govt., where all
business liable to abuses is made to pass thro' separate hands, the one
being a check on the other. It wd. next occur to such a people, that
they themselves were liable to temporary errors, thro' want of
information as to their true interest, and that men chosen for a short
term, & employed but a small portion of that in public affairs, might
err from the same cause. This reflection wd. naturally suggest that the
Govt. be so constituted, as that one of its branches might have an oppy.
of acquiring a competent knowledge of the public interests Another
reflection equally becoming a people on such an occasion, wd. be that
they themselves, as well as a numerous body of Representatives, were
liable to err also, from fickleness and passion. A necessary fence agst.
this danger would be to select a portion of enlightened citizens, whose
limited number, and firmness might seasonably interpose agst. impetuous
councils. It ought finally to occur to a people deliberating on a Govt.
for themselves, that as different interests necessarily result from the
liberty meant to be secured, the major interest might under sudden
impulses be tempted to commit injustice on the minority. In all
civilized Countries the people fall into different classes havg a real
or supposed difference of interests. There will be creditors & debtors,
farmers, merchts. & manufacturers. There will be particularly the
distinction of rich & poor. It was true as had been observd. [by Mr.
Pinkney] we had not among us those hereditary distinctions, of rank
which were a great source of the contests in the ancient Govts. as well
as the modern States of Europe, nor those extremes of wealth or poverty
which characterize the latter. We cannot however be regarded even at
this time, as one homogeneous mass, in which every thing that affects a
part will affect in the same manner the whole. In framing a system which
we wish to last for ages, we shd. not lose sight of the changes which
ages will produce. An increase of population will of necessity increase
the proportion of those who will labour under all the hardships of life,
& secretly sigh for a more equal distribution of its blessings. These
may in time outnumber those who are placed above the feelings of
indigence. According to the equal laws of suffrage, the power will slide
into the hands of the former. No agrarian attempts have yet been made in
in this Country, but symtoms, of a leveling spirit, as we have
understood, have sufficiently appeared in a certain quarters to give
notice of the future danger. How is this danger to be guarded agst. on
republican principles? How is the danger in all cases of interested
coalitions to oppress the minority to be guarded agst.? Among other
means by the establishment of a body in the Govt. sufficiently
respectable for its wisdom & virtue, to aid on such emergences, the
preponderance of justice by throwing its weight into that scale. Such
being the objects of the second branch in the proposed Govt. he thought
a considerable duration ought to be given to it. He did not conceive
that the term of nine years could threaten any real danger; but in
pursuing his particular ideas on the subject, he should require that the
long term allowed to the 2d. branch should not commence till such a
period of life, as would render a perpetual disqualification to be
re-elected little inconvenient either in a public or private view. He
observed that as it was more than probable we were now digesting a plan
which in its operation wd. decide for ever the fate of Republican Govt.
we ought not only to provide every guard to liberty that its
preservation cd. require, but be equally careful to supply the defects
which our own experience had particularly pointed out.

Mr. SHERMAN. Govt. is instituted for those who live under it. It ought
therefore to be so constituted as not to be dangerous to their
liberties. The more permanency it has the worse if it be a bad Govt.
Frequent elections are necessary to preserve the good behavior of
rulers. They also tend to give permanency to the Government, by
preserving that good behavior, because it ensures their re-election. In
Connecticut elections have been very frequent, yet great stability &
uniformity both as to persons & measures have been experienced from its
original establishmt. to the present time; a period of more than 130
years. He wished to have provision made for steadiness & wisdom in the
system to be adopted; but he thought six or four years would be
sufficient. He shd. be content with either.

Mr. READ wished it to be considered by the small States that it was
their interest that we should become one people as much as possible;
that State attachments shd. be extinguished as much as possible; that
the Senate shd. be so constituted as to have the feelings of Citizens of
the whole.

Mr. HAMILTON. He did not mean to enter particularly into the subject. He
concurred with Mr. Madison in thinking we were now to decide for ever
the fate of Republican Government; and that if we did not give to that
form due stability and wisdom, it would be disgraced & lost among
ourselves, disgraced & lost to mankind for ever. He acknowledged himself
not to think favorably of Republican Government; but addressed his
remarks to those who did think favorably of it, in order to prevail on
them to tone their Government as high as possible. He professed himself
to be as zealous an advocate for liberty as any man whatever, and
trusted he should be as willing a martyr to it though he differed as to
the form in which it was most eligible. -- He concurred also in the
general observations of [Mr. Madison] on the subject, which might be
supported by others if it were necessary. It was certainly true: that
nothing like an equality of property existed: that an inequality would
exist as long as liberty existed, and that it would unavoidably result
from that very liberty itself. This inequality of property constituted
the great & fundamental distinction in Society. When the Tribunitial
power had levelled the boundary between the patricians & plebeians, what
followed? The distinction between rich & poor was substituted. He meant
not however to enlarge on the subject. He rose principally to remark
that [Mr. Sherman] seemed not to recollect that one branch of the
proposed Govt. was so formed, as to render it particularly the guardians
of the poorer orders of Citizens; nor to have adverted to the true
causes of the stability which had been exemplified in Cont. Under the
British system as well as the federal, many of the great powers
appertaining to Govt. particularly all those relating to foreign Nations
were not in the hands of the Govt. there. Their internal affairs also
were extremely simple, owing to sundry causes many of which were
peculiar to that Country. Of late the Govermt. had entirely given way to
the people, and had in fact suspended many of its ordinary functions in
order to prevent those turbulent scenes which had appeared elsewhere. He
asks Mr. S. whether the State at this time, dare impose & collect a tax
on ye. people? To these causes & not to the frequency of elections, the
effect, as far as it existed ought to be chiefly ascribed.

Mr. GERRY. wished we could be united in our ideas concerning a permanent
Govt. All aim at the same end, but there are great differences as to the
means. One circumstance He thought should be carefully attended to.
There were not 1/1000 part of our fellow citizens who were not agst.
every approach towards Monarchy. Will they ever agree to a plan which
seems to make such an approach. The Convention ought to be extremely
cautious in what they hold out to the people. Whatever plan may be
proposed will be espoused with warmth by many out of respect to the
quarter it proceeds from as well as from an approbation of the plan
itself. And if the plan should be of such a nature as to rouse a violent
opposition, it is easy to foresee that discord & confusion will ensue,
and it is even possible that we may become a prey to foreign powers. He
did not deny the position of Mr. Madison, that the majority will
generally violate justice when they have an interest in so doing; But
did not think there was any such temptation in this Country. Our
situation was different from that of G. Britain: and the great body of
lands yet to be parcelled out & settled would very much prolong the
difference. Notwithstanding the symtoms of injustice which had marked
many of our public Councils, they had not proceeded so far as not to
leave hopes, that there would be a sufficient sense of justice & virtue
for the purpose of Govt. He admitted the evils arising from a frequency
of elections: and would agree to give the Senate a duration of four or
five years. A longer term would defeat itself. It never would be adopted
by the people. 

Mr. WILSON did not mean to repeat what had fallen from others, but wd.
add an observation or two which he believed had not yet been suggested.
Every nation may be regarded in two relations 1. [2] to its own
citizens. 2 [2] to foreign nations. It is therefore not only liable to
anarchy & tyranny within, but has wars to avoid & treaties to obtain
from abroad. The Senate will probably be the depositary of the powers
concerning the latter objects. It ought therefore to be made respectable
in the eyes of foreign Nations. The true reason why G. Britain has not
yet listened to a commercial treaty with us has been, because she had no
confidence in the stability or efficacy of our Government. 9 years with
a rotation, will provide these desirable qualities; and give our Govt.
an advantage in this respect over Monarchy itself. In a monarchy much
must always depend on the temper of the man. In such a body, the
personal character will be lost in the political. He wd add another
observation. The popular objection agst. appointing any public body for
a long term was that it might by gradual encroachments prolong itself
first into a body for life, and finally become a hereditary one. It
would be a satisfactory answer to this objection that as 1/3 would go
out triennially, there would be always three divisions holding their
places for unequal terms, [3] and consequently acting under the
influence of different views, and different impulses -- On the question
for 9 years, 1/3 to go out triennially

Massts. no. Cont. no. N. Y. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. no. Va.
ay. N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [4]

On the question for 6 years 1/3 to go out biennially

Massts. ay. Cont. ay. N. Y. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va.
ay. N. C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. no. [5]

[6] "To receive fixt stipends by which they may be compensated for their
services." [7] considered

General PINKNEY proposed "that no Salary should be allowed." As this
[the Senatorial] branch was meant to represent the wealth of the
Country, it ought to be composed of persons of wealth; and if no
allowance was to be made the wealthy along would undertake the service.
He moved to strike out the clause.

DOCtr. FRANKLIN seconded the motion. He wished the Convention to stand
fair with the people. There were in it a number of young men who would
probably be of the Senate. If lucrative appointments should be
recommended we might be chargeable with having carved out places for
ourselves. On the question, Masts. Connecticut [8] Pa. Md. S. Carolina
ay. [10] N. Y. N. J. Del. Virga. N. C. Geo. no. [11]

Mr. WILLIAMSON moved to change the expression into these words towit "to
receive a compensation for the devotion of their time to the public
Service." The motion was seconded by Mr. Elseworth. And was [12] agreed
to by all the States except S. Carola. It seemed to be meant only to get
rid of the word "fixt" and leave greater room for modifying the
provision on this point.

Mr. ELSEWORTH moved to strike out "to be paid out of the natil.
Treasury" and insert "to be paid by their respective States." If the
Senate was meant to strengthen the Govt. it ought to have the confidence
of the States. The States will have an interest in keeping up a
representation, and will make such provision for supporting the members
as will ensure their attendance.

Mr. MADISON considered this [13] a departure from a fundamental
principle, and subverting the end intended by allowing the Senate a
duration of 6 years. They would if this motion should be agreed to, hold
their places during pleasure; during the pleasure of the State
Legislatures. One great end of the institution was, that being a firm,
wise and impartial body, it might not only give stability to the Genl.
Govt. in its operations on individuals, but hold an even balance among
different States. The motion would make the Senate like Congress, the
mere Agents & Advocates of State interests & views, instead of being the
impartial umpires & Guardians of justice and [14] general Good. Congs.
had lately by the establishment of a board with full powers to decide on
the mutual claims be -- between the U. States & the individual States,
fairly acknowledged themselves to be unfit for discharging this part of
the business referred to them by the Confederation.

Mr. DAYTON considered the payment of the Senate by the States as fatal
to their independence. he was decided for paying them out of the Natl.
Treasury.

On the question for payment of the Senate to be left to the States as
moved by Mr. Elseworth. [15]

Massts. no. Cont. ay. N. Y. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va.
no. N. C. no. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [16]

Col. MASON. He did not rise to make any motion, but to hint an idea
which seemed to be proper for consideration. One important object in
constituting the Senate was to secure the rights of property. To give
them weight & firmness for this purpose, a considerable duration in
office was thought necessary. But a longer term than 6 years, would be
of no avail in this respect, if needy persons should be appointed. He
suggested therefore the propriety of annexing to the office a
qualification of property. He thought this would be very practicable; as
the rules of taxation would supply a scale for measuring the degree of
wealth possessed by every man.

A question was then taken whether the words "to be paid out of the
public [17] treasury," should stand."

Massts. ay. Cont. no. N. Y. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va.
ay. N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [18]

Mr. BUTLER moved to strike out the ineligibility of Senators to State
offices.

Mr. WILLIAMSON seconded the motion.

Mr. WILSON remarked the additional dependence this wd create in the
Senators on the States. The longer the time he observed allotted to the
officer, the more compleat will be the dependance, if it exists at all.

Genl. PINKNEY was for making the States as much as could be conveniently
done, a part of the Genl. Govt.: If the Senate was to be appointed by
the States, it ought in pursuance of the same idea to be paid by the
States: and the States ought not to be barred from the opportunity of
calling members of it into offices at home. Such a restriction would
also discourage the ablest men from going into the Senate.

Mr. WILLIAMSON moved a resolution so penned as to admit of the two
following questions. 1. [19] whether the members of the Senate should be
ineligible to & incapable of holding offices under the U. States 2. [19]
Whether &c. under the particular States.

On the Question to postpone in order to consider [20] Williamson's
Resoln. Masts. no. Cont. ay. N. Y. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md.
ay. Va. ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [21]

Mr. GERRY & Mr. MADISON -- move to add to Mr. Williamsons 1, [19] Quest:
"and for 1 year thereafter." On this amendt.

Masts. no. Cont. ay. N. Y. ay. N. J. no. P. no. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay.
N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. no. [22]

On Mr. Will-son's 1 Question as amended. vz. inelig: & incapable &c. &c
for 1 year &c. agd. [23] unanimously.

On the 2. [24] question as to ineligibility &c. to State offices. [25]

Mas. ay. Ct. no. N. Y. no. N. J. no. P. ay. Del. no. Md. no. Va. ay. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [26]

The 5. [27] Resol: "that each branch have the right of originating acts"
was agreed to nem: con:

Adjd.

___________

1. The word "being" is here inserted in the transcript.

2. The figures "1" and "2" are changed to "first" and "secondly" in the
transcript.

3. The word "times" is substituted in the transcript for "terms."

4. In the transcript the vote reads: "Pennsylvania, Delaware, Virginia,
aye -- 3; Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Maryland,
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8."

5. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, aye -- 7;
New York, New Jersey, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 4."

6. The words "The clause of the fourth Resolution" are here inserted in
the transcript.

7. The word "being" is here inserted in the transcript.

8. Quer. whether Connecticut should not be -- no, & Delaware, ay. [9]

9. An interrogation mark and the initials "J.M." are here inserted in
the transcript. According to the Journal, Connecticut was "ay" and
Delaware "no."

10. The figure "5" is here inserted in the transcript.

11. The figure "6" is here inserted in the transcript.

12. The word "was" is omitted in the transcript.

13. The word "as" is here inserted in the transcript.

14. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

15. The phrase "it passed in the negative" is here inserted in the
transcript.

16. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New York, New
Jersey, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 5; Massachusetts, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, no -- 6."

17. The word "public" is changed to "national" in the transcript.

18. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, aye -- 5; Connecticut, New York, New
Jersey, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 6."

19. The figures "1" and "2" are changed to "first" and "secondly" in the
transcript.

20. The word "Mr." is here inserted in the transcript.

21. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia,
aye -- 8; Massachusetts, New York, New Jersey, no -- 3."

22. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New York, Delaware,
Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, ay -- 7;
Massachusetts, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Georgia, no -- 4."

23. The word "to" is here inserted in the transcript.

24. The figure "2" is changed to "second" in the transcript.

25. The transcript italicizes the words "State offices."

26. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Pennsylvania,
Virginia, aye -- 3; Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Delaware,
Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8."

27. The figure "5" is changed to "fifth" in the transcript.


