WEDNESDAY AUGUST 15. IN CONVENTION

Art: VI. Sect. 11. [1, 2] Agreed to nem. con.

Art: VI Sect. 12. [1, 3] taken up.

Mr. STRONG moved to amend the article so as to read -- "Each House shall
possess the right of originating all bills, except bills for raising
money for the purposes of revenue, or for appropriating the same and for
fixing the salaries of the officers of the Govt. which shall originate
in the House of Representatives; but the Senate may propose or concur
with amendments as in other cases"

Col. MASON, 2ds. the motion. He was extremely earnest to take this power
from the Senate, who he said could already sell the whole Country by
means of Treaties.

Mr. GHORUM urged the amendment as of great importance. The Senate will
first acquire the habit of preparing money bills, and then the practice
will grow into an exclusive right of preparing them.

Mr. GOVERNr. MORRIS opposed it as unnecessary and inconvenient.

Mr. WILLIAMSON. some think this restriction on the Senate essential to
liberty, others think it of no importance. Why should not the former be
indulged. he was for an efficient and stable Govt. but many would not
strengthen the Senate if not restricted in the case of money bills. The
friends of the Senate would therefore lose more than they would gain by
refusing to gratify the other side. He moved to postpone the subject
till the powers of the Senate should be gone over. 

Mr. RUTLIDGE 2ds. the motion.

Mr. MERCER should hereafter be agst. returning to a reconsideration of
this section. He contended, (alluding to Mr. Mason's observations) that
the Senate ought not to have the power of treaties. This power belonged
to the Executive department; adding that Treaties would not be final so
as to alter the laws of the land, till ratified by legislative
authority. This was the case of Treaties in Great Britain; particularly
the late Treaty of Commerce with France.

Col. MASON. did not say that a Treaty would repeal a law; but that the
Senate by means of treaty [4] might alienate territory &c, without
legislative sanction. The cessions of the British Islands in 5 W. Indies
by Treaty alone were an example. If Spain should possess herself of
Georgia therefore the Senate might by treaty dismember the Union. He
wished the motion to be decided now, that the friends of it might know
how to conduct themselves.

On [5] question for postponing Sec: 12. it passed in the affirmative.

N. H. ay. Mas. ay Ct. no. N. J. no Pena. no. Del. no Maryd. no. Va. ay.
N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. -- [6]

Mr. MADISON moved that all acts before they become laws should be
submitted both to the Executive and Supreme Judiciary Departments, that
if either of these should object 2/3 of each House, if both should
object, 3/4 of each House, should be necessary to overrule the
objections and give to the acts the force of law -- [7]

See the motion at large in the Journal of this date, page 253, & insert
it here." [8]

["Every bill which shall have passed the two houses, shall, before it
become a law, be severally presented to the President of the United
States, and to the judges of the supreme court for the revision of each.
If, upon such revision, they shall approve of it, they shall
respectively signify their approbation by signing it; but if, upon such
revision, it shall appear improper to either, or both, to be passed into
a law, it shall be returned, with the objections against it, to that
house, in which it shall have originated, who shall enter the objections
at large on their journal, and proceed to reconsider the bill: but if,
after such reconsideration, two thirds of that house, when either the
President, or a majority of the judges shall object, or three fourths,
where both shall object, shall agree to pass it, it shall, together with
the objections, be sent to the other house, by which it shall likewise
be reconsidered; and, if approved by two thirds, or three fourths of the
other house, as the case may be, it shall become a law."]

Mr. WILSON seconds the motion

Mr. PINKNEY opposed the interference of the Judges in the Legislative
business: it will involve them in parties, and give a previous tincture
to their opinions.

Mr. MERCER heartily approved the motion. It is an axiom that the
Judiciary ought to be separate from the Legislative: but equally so that
it ought to be independent of that department. The true policy of the
axiom is that legislative usurpation and oppression may be obviated. He
disapproved of the Doctrine that the Judges as expositors of the
Constitution should have authority to declare a law void. He thought
laws ought to be well and cautiously made, and then to be
uncontroulable.

Mr. GERRY. This motion comes to the same thing with what had
been already negatived.

[10] Question on the motion of Mr. Madison.

N. H. no. Mass. no. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. ay. Maryd. ay. Virga.
ay. N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [11]

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS regretted that something like the proposed check could
not be agreed to. He dwelt on the importance of public credit, and the
difficulty of supporting it without some strong barrier against the
instability of legislative Assemblies. He suggested the idea of
requiring three fourths of each house to repeal laws where the President
should not concur. He had no great reliance on the revisionary power as
the Executive was now to be constituted [elected by the [12] Congress].
The legislature will contrive to soften down the President. He recited
the history of paper emissions, and the perseverance of the legislative
assemblies in repeating them, with all the distressing effects of such
measures before their eyes. Were the National legislature formed, and a
war was now to break out, this ruinous expedient would be again resorted
to, if not guarded against. The requiring 3/4 to repeal would, though
not a compleat remedy, prevent the hasty passage of laws, and the
frequency of those repeals which destroy faith in the public, and which
are among our greatest calamities. -- 

Mr. DICKENSON was strongly impressed with the remark of Mr. Mercer as to
the power of the Judges to set aside the law. He thought no such power
ought to exist. He was at the same time at a loss what expedient to
substitute. The Justiciary of Arragon he observed became by degrees, the
lawgiver.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS, suggested the expedient of an absolute negative in the
Executive. He could not agree that the Judiciary which was part of the
Executive, should be bound to say that a direct violation of the
Constitution was law. A controul over the legislature might have its
inconveniences. But view the danger on the other side. The most virtuous
Citizens will often as members of a legislative body concur in measures
which afterwards in their private capacity they will be ashamed of.
Encroachments of the popular branch of the Government ought to be
guarded agst. The Ephori at Sparta became in the end absolute. The
Report of the Council of Censors in Pennsylva. points out the many
invasions of the legislative department on the Executive numerous as the
latter [*13] is, within the short term of seven years, and in a State
where a strong party is opposed to the Constitution, and watching every
occasion of turning the public resentments agst. it. If the Executive be
overturned by the popular branch, as happened in England, the tyranny of
one man will ensue. In Rome where the Aristocracy overturned the throne,
the consequence was different. He enlarged on the tendency of the
legislative Authority to usurp on the Executive and wished the section
to be postponed, in order to consider of some more effectual check than
requiring 2/3 only to overrule the negative of the Executive.

Mr. SHERMAN. Can one man be trusted better than all the others if they
all agree? This was neither wise nor safe. He disapproved of Judges
meddling in politics and parties. We have gone far enough in forming the
negative as it now stands.

Mr. CARROL. when the negative to be overruled by 2/3 only was agreed to,
the quorum was not fixed. He remarked that as a majority was now to be
the quorum, 17. in the larger, and 8 in the smaller house might carry
points. The advantage that might be taken of this seemed to call for
greater impediments to improper laws. He thought the controuling power
however of the Executive could not be well decided, till it was seen how
the formation of that department would be finally regulated. He wished
the consideration of the matter to be postponed.

Mr. GHORUM saw no end to these difficulties and postponements. Some
could not agree to the form of Government before the powers were
defined. Others could not agree to the powers till it was seen how the
Government was to be formed. He thought a majority as large a quorum as
was necessary. It was the quorum almost every where fixt in the U.
States.

Mr. WILSON; after viewing the subject with all the coolness and
attention possible was most apprehensive of a dissolution of the Govt.
from the legislature swallowing up all the other powers. He remarked
that the prejudices agst. the Executive resulted from a misapplication
of the adage that the parliament was the palladium of liberty. Where the
Executive was really formidable, King and Tyrant, were naturally
associated in the minds of people; not legislature and tyranny. But
where the Executive was not formidable, the two last were most properly
associated. After the destruction of the King in Great Britain, a more
pure and unmixed tryanny sprang up in the parliament than had been
exercised by the monarch. He insisted that we had not guarded agst. the
danger on this side by a sufficient self-defensive power either to the
Executive or Judiciary department.

Mr. RUTLIDGE was strenuous agst. postponing; and complained much of the
tediousness of the proceedings.

Mr. ELSEWORTH held the same language. We grow more & more skeptical as
we proceed. If we do not decide soon, we shall be unable to come to any
decision.

The question for postponement passed in the negative: Del: & Maryd. only
being in the affirmative.

Mr. WILLIAMSON moved to change " 2/3 of each House" into " 3/4 as
requisite to overrule the dissent of the President. He saw no danger in
this, and preferred giving the power to the Presidt. alone, to admitting
the Judges into the business of legislation.

Mr. WILSON 2ds. the motion; referring to and repeating the ideas of Mr.
Carroll.

On this motion for 3/4 . instead of two thirds; it passed in the
affirmative

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. no. Pena. divd. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va.
ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. no. [15]

Mr. MADISON, observing that if the negative of the President was
confined to bills; it would be evaded by acts under the form and name of
Resolutions, votes &c, proposed that or resolve" should be added after
"bill" in the beginning of sect 13. with an exception as to votes of
adjournment &c. -- after a short and rather confused conversation on the
subject, the question was put & rejected, the States [16] being as
follows,

N. H. no. Mas. ay. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pena. no. Del. ay. Md. no. Va. no.
N. C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. no. [17]

"Ten [18] days (Sundays excepted)" instead of "seven" were allowed to
the President for returning bills with his objections N. H. & Mas: only
voting agst. it.

The 13 Sect: of art. VI as amended was then agreed to.

Adjourned

___________

1. See ante.

2. The word "was" is here inserted in the transcript.

3. The words "was then" are here inserted in the transcript.

4. The transcript uses the word "treaty" in the plural.

5. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

6. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 6;
Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, no -- 5."

7. This paragraph is stricken out in the transcript.

8. Madison's direction concerning the motion is omitted in the
transcript and the following sentence is inserted: "Mr. Madison moved
the following amendment of Article 6, Section 13." [9] 9. See ante.

10. The words "On the" are here inserted in the transcript.

11. In the transcript the vote reads: "Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, aye
-- 3; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8."

12. The word "the" is omitted in the transcript.

*13. The Executive consists at this time [14] of abt. 20 members.

14. The phrase "consisted at that time" is substituted in the transcript
for "consists at this time."

15. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, aye -- 6; New Hampshire,
Massachusetts, New Jersey, Georgia, no -- 4; Pennsylvania, divided."

16. The word "votes" is substituted in the transcript for "States."

17. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Delaware, North
Carolina, aye -- 3; New Hampshire, Connecticut, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8."

18. The transcript does not italicize the word "Ten."


