FRIDAY  JUNE 29th.   IN CONVENTION

DOCtr. JOHNSON. The controversy must be endless whilst Gentlemen differ
in the grounds of their arguments; Those on one side considering the
States as districts of people composing one political Society; those on
the other considering them as so many political societies. The fact is
that the States do exist as political Societies, and a Govt. is to be
formed for them in their political capacity, as well as for the
individuals composing them. Does it not seem to follow, that if the
States as such are to exist they must be armed with some power of
self-defence. This is the idea of [Col. Mason] who appears to have
looked to the bottom of this matter. Besides the Aristocratic and other
interests, which ought to have the means of defending themselves, the
States have their interests as such, and are equally entitled to likes
means. On the whole he thought that as in some respects the States are
to be considered in their political capacity, and in others as districts
of individual citizens, the two ideas embraced on different sides,
instead of being opposed to each other, ought to be combined; that in
one branch the people, ought to be represented; in the other the States.

Mr. GHORUM. The States as now confederated have no doubt a right to
refuse to be consolidated, or to be formed into any new system. But he
wished the small States which seemed most ready to object, to consider
which are to give up most, they or the larger ones. He conceived that a
rupture of the Union wd. be an event unhappy for all, but surely the
large States would be least unable to take care of themselves, and to
make connections with one another. The weak therefore were most
interested in establishing some general system for maintaining order. If
among individuals, composed partly of weak, and partly of strong, the
former most need the protection of law & Government, the case is exactly
the same with weak & powerful States. What would be the situation of
Delaware (for these things he found must be spoken out, & it might as
well be done [1] first as last) what wd. be the situation of Delaware in
case of a separation of the States? Would she not lie [2] at the mercy
of Pennsylvania? would not her true interest lie in being consolidated
with her, and ought she not now to wish for such a union with Pa. under
one Govt. as will put it out of the power of Pena. to oppress her?
Nothing can be more ideal than the danger apprehended by the States,
from their being formed into one nation. Massts. was originally three
colonies, viz old Massts. Plymouth -- & the province of Mayne. These
apprehensions existed then. An incorporation took place; all parties
were safe & satisfied; and every distinction is now forgotten. The case
was similar with Connecticut & Newhaven. The dread of union was
reciprocal; the consequence of it equally salutary and satisfactory. In
like manner N. Jersey has been made one society out of two parts. Should
a separation of the States take place, the fate of N. Jersey wd. be
worst of all. She has no foreign commerce & can have but little. Pa. &
N. York will continue to levy taxes on her consumption. If she consults
her interest she wd. beg of all things to be annihilated. The
apprehensions of the small States ought to be appeased by another
reflection. Massts. will be divided. The province of Maine is already
considered as approaching the term of its annexation to it; and Pa. will
probably not increase, considering the present state of her population,
& other events that may happen. On the whole he considered a Union of
the States as necessary to their happiness, & a firm Genl. Govt. as
necessary to their Union. He shd. consider it as [3] his duty if his
colleagues viewed the matter in the same light he did to stay here as
long as any other State would remain with them, in order to agree on
some plan that could with propriety be recommended to the people.

Mr. ELSWORTH, did not despair. He still trusted that some good plan of
Govt. wd. be divised & adopted.

Mr. READ. He shd. have no objection to the system if it were truly
national, but it has too much of a federal mixture in it. The little
States he thought had not much to fear. He suspected that the large
States felt their want of energy, & wished for a Genl. Govt. to supply
the defect. Massts. was evidently labouring under her weakness and he
believed Delaware wd. not be in much danger if in her neighbourhood.
Delaware had enjoyed tranquility & he flattered himself wd. continue to
do so. He was not however so selfish as not to wish for a good Genl.
Govt. In order to obtain one the whole States must be incorporated. If
the States remain, the representatives of the large ones will stick
together, and carry every thing before them. The Executive also will be
chosen under the influence of this partiality, and will betray it in his
administration. These jealousies are inseparable from the scheme of
leaving the States in existence. They must be done away. The ungranted
lands also which have been assumed by particular States must also [4] be
given up. He repeated his approbation of the plan of Mr. Hamilton, &
wished it to be substituted in place of [5] that on the table.

Mr. MADISON agreed with Docr. Johnson, that the mixed nature of the
Govt. ought to be kept in view; but thought too much stress was laid on
the rank of the States as political societies. There was a gradation, he
observed from the smallest corporation, with the most limited powers, to
the largest empire with the most perfect sovereignty. He pointed out the
limitations on the sovereignty of the States, as now confederated their
laws in relation to the paramount law of the Confederacy were analogous
to that of bye laws to the supreme law within a State. Under the
proposed Govt. the powers of the States will be much farther reduced.
According to the views of every member, the Genl. Govt. will have powers
far beyond those exercised by the British Parliament, when the States
were part of the British Empire. It will in particular have the power,
without the consent of the State Legislatures, to levy money directly on
[6] the people themselves; and therefore not to divest such unequal
portions of the people as composed the several States, of an equal
voice, would subject the system to the reproaches & evils which have
resulted from the vicious representation in G. B.

He entreated the gentlemen representing the small States to renounce a
principle wch. was confessedly unjust, which cd. never be admitted, &
[7] if admitted must infuse mortality into a Constitution which we
wished to last forever. He prayed them to ponder well the consequences
of suffering the Confederacy to go to pieces. It had been sd. that the
want of energy in the large states wd. be a security to the small. It
was forgotten that this want of energy proceeded from the supposed
security of the States agst. all external danger. Let each state depend
on itself for its security, & let apprehensions arise arise of danger,
from distant powers or from neighbouring States, & the languishing
condition of all the States, large as well as small, wd. soon be
transformed into vigorous & high toned Govts. His great fear was that
their Govts. wd. then have too much energy, that these [8] might not
only be formidable in the large to the small States, but fatal to the
internal liberty of all. The same causes which have rendered the old
world the Theatre of incessant wars, & have banished liberty from the
face of it, wd. soon produce the same effects here. The weakness &
jealousy of the small States wd. quickly introduce some regular military
force agst. sudden danger from their powerful neighbours. The example
wd. be followed by others, and wd. soon become universal. In time of
actual war, great discretionary powers are constantly given to the
Executive Magistrate. Constant apprehension of war, has the same
tendency to render the head too large for the body. A standing military
force, with an overgrown Executive will not long be safe companions to
liberty. The means of defence agst. foreign danger, have been always the
instruments of tyranny at home. Among the Romans it was a standing maxim
to excite a war, whenever a revolt was apprehended. Throughout all
Europe, the armies kept up under the pretext of defending, have enslaved
the people. It is perhaps questionable, whether the best concerted
system of absolute power in Europe cd. maintain itself, in a situation,
where no alarms of external danger cd. tame the people to the domestic
yoke. The insular situation of G. Britain was the principal cause of her
being an exception to the general fate of Europe. It has rendered less
defence necessary, and admitted a kind of defence wch. cd. not be used
for the purpose of oppression. -- These consequences he conceived ought
to be apprehended whether the States should run into a total separation
from each other, or shd. enter into partial confederacies. Either event
wd. be truly deplorable; & those who might be accessary to either, could
never be forgiven by their Country, nor by themselves.

[*9] Mr. HAMILTON observed that individuals forming political Societies
modify their rights differently, with regard to suffrage. Examples of it
are found in all the States. In all of them some individuals are
deprived of the right altogether, not having the requisite qualification
of property. In some of the States the right of suffrage is allowed in
some cases and refused in others. To vote for a member in one branch, a
certain quantum of property, to vote for a member in another branch of
the Legislature, a higher quantum of property is required. In like
manner States may modify their right of suffrage differently, the larger
exercising a larger, the smaller a smaller share of it. But as States
are a collection of individual men which ought we to respect most, the
rights of the people composing them, or of the artificial beings
resulting from the composition. Nothing could be more preposterous or
absurd than to sacrifice the former to the latter. It has been sd. that
if the smaller States renounce their equality, they renounce at the same
time their liberty. The truth is it is a contest for power, not for
liberty. Will the men composing the small States be less free than those
composing the larger. The State of Delaware having 40,000 souls will
lose [11] power, if she has 1/10 only of the votes allowed to Pa. having
400,000: but will the people of Del: be less free, if each citizen has
an equal vote with each citizen of Pa. He admitted that common residence
within the same State would produce a certain degree of attachment; and
that this principle might have a certain influence in [12] public
affairs. He thought however that this might by some precautions be in a
great measure excluded: and that no material inconvenience could result
from it, as there could not be any ground for combination among the
States whose influence was most dreaded. The only considerable
distinction of interests, lay between the carrying & non-carrying
States, which divide [13] instead of uniting the largest States. No
considerable inconvenience had been found from the division of the State
of N. York into different districts of different sizes.

Some of the consequences of a dissolution of the Union, and the
establishment of partial confederacies, had been pointed out. He would
add another of a most serious nature. Alliances will immediately be
formed with different rival & hostile nations of Europes, who will
foment disturbances among ourselves, and make us parties to all their
own quarrels. Foreign Nations having American dominions [14] are & must
be jealous of us. Their representatives betray the utmost anxiety for
our fate, & for the result of this meeting, which must have an essential
influence on it. -- It had been said that respectability in the eyes of
foreign Nations was not the object at which we aimed; that the proper
object of republican Government was domestic tranquility & happiness.
This was an ideal distinction. No Governmt. could give us tranquility &
happiness at home, which did not possess sufficient stability and
strength to make us respectable abroad. This was the critical moment for
forming such a Government. We should run every risk in trusting to
future amendments. As yet we retain the habits of union. We are weak &
sensible of our weakness. Henceforward the motives will become feebler,
and the difficulties greater. It is a miracle that we were [15] now here
exercising our tranquil & free deliberations on the subject. It would be
madness to trust to future miracles. A thousand causes must obstruct a
reproduction of them.

Mr. PIERCE considered the equality of votes under the Confederation as
the great source of the public difficulties. The members of Congs. were
advocates for local advantages. State distinctions must be sacrificed as
far as the general good required, but without destroying the States.
Tho' from a small State he felt himself a Citizen of the U. S.

Mr. GERRY urged that we never were independent States, were not such
now, & never could be even on the principles of the Confederation. The
States & the advocates for them were intoxicated with the idea of their
sovereignty. He was a member of Congress at the time the federal
articles were formed. The injustice of allowing each State an equal vote
was long insisted on. He voted for it, but it was agst. his Judgment,
and under the pressure of public danger, and the obstinacy of the lesser
States. The present confederation he considered as dissolving. The fate
of the Union will be decided by the Convention. If they do not agree on
something, few delegates will probably be appointed to Congs. If they do
Congs. will probably be kept up till the new System should be adopted.
He lamented that instead of coming here like a band of brothers,
belonging to the same family, we seemed to have brought with us the
spirit of political negociators.

Mr. L. MARTIN. remarked that the language of the States being sovereign
& independent, was once familiar & understood; though it seemed now so
strange & obscure. He read those passages in the articles of
Confederation, which describe them in that language.

On the question as moved by Mr. Lansing. Shall the word "not" be struck
out.

Massts. no. Cont. ay. N. Y. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. divd. Va.
no. N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [16]

On the motion to agree to the clause as reported, "that the rule of
suffrage in the 1st. branch ought not to be according to that
established by the articles of [17] Confederation.

Mass. ay. Cont. no. N. Y. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. divd. Va.
ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [18]

DOCr. JOHNSON & Mr. ELSEWORTH moved to postpone the residue of the
clause, & take up -- ye. 8 -- Resol:

On [17] question.

Mas. no. Cont. ay. N. Y. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay.
N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [19]

Mr. ELSEWORTH moved that the rule of suffrage in the 2d. branch be the
same with that established by the articles of confederation." He was not
sorry on the whole he said that the vote just passed, had determined
against this rule in the first branch. He hoped it would become a ground
of compromise with regard to the 2d. branch. We were partly national;
partly federal. The proportional representation in the first branch was
conformable to the national principle & would secure the large States
agst. the small. An equality of voices was conformable to the federal
principle and was necessary to secure the Small States agst. the large.
He trusted that on this middle ground a compromise would take place. He
did not see that it could on any other. And if no compromise should take
place, our meeting would not only be in vain but worse than in vain. To
the Eastward he was sure Massts. was the only State that would listen to
a proposition for excluding the States as equal political Societies,
from an equal voice in both branches. The others would risk every
consequence rather than part with so dear a right. An attempt to deprive
them of it, was at once cutting the body of America in two, and as he
supposed would be the case, somewhere about this part of it. The large
States he conceived would notwithstanding the equality of votes, have an
influence that would maintain their superiority. Holland, as had been
admitted [by Mr. Madison] had, notwithstanding a like equality in the
Dutch Confederacy, a prevailing influence in the public measures. The
power of self-defence was essential to the small States. Nature had
given it to the smallest insect of the creation. He could never admit
that there was no danger of combinations among the large States. They
will like individuals find out and avail themselves of the advantage to
be gained by it. It was true the danger would be greater, if they were
contiguous and had a more immediate [20] common interest. A defensive
combination of the small States was rendered more difficult by their
greater number. He would mention another consideration of great weight.
The existing confederation was founded on the equality of the States in
the article of suffrage: was it meant to pay no regard to this
antecedent plighted faith. Let a strong Executive, a Judiciary &
Legislative power be created; but Let not too much be attempted; by
which all may be lost. He was not in general a half-way man, yet he
preferred doing half the good we could, rather than do nothing at all.
The other half may be added, when the necessity shall be more fully
experienced.

Mr. BALDWIN could have wished that the powers of the General Legislature
had been defined, before the mode of constituting it had been agitated.
He should vote against the motion of Mr. Elseworth, tho' he did not like
the Resolution as it stood in the Report of the Committee of the whole.
He thought the second branch ought to be the representation of property,
and that in forming it therefore some reference ought to be had to the
relative wealth of their Constituents, and to the principles on which
the Senate of Massts. was constituted. He concurred with those who
thought it wd. be impossible for the Genl. Legislature to extend its
cares to the local matters of the States.

Adjd.

___________

1. The word "at" is here inserted in the transcript.

2. The word "be" is substituted in the transcript for "lie."

3. The word "as" is omitted in the transcript.

4. The word "also" is stricken out in the transcript. 

5. The word 'for" is substituted in the transcript for "in place of."

6. The word "from" is substituted in the transcript for "on."

7. The word "which" is here inserted in the transcript.

8. The word "these" is stricken out in the transcript and "this" is
written above it.

*9. From this date he was absent till the _____ of _____ [10]

10. The date, "13th of August," is supplied in the transcript.

11. The transcript does not italicize the word "lose."

12. The word "on" is substituted in the transcript for "in."

13. The word "divides" is substituted in the transcript for "divide,".

14. The transcript uses the word "dominions" in the singular.

15. The word "are" is substituted in the transcript for "were."

16. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New York, New
Jersey, Delaware, aye -- 4; Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 6; Maryland, divided."

17. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

18. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Pennsylvania,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 6;
Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Delaware, no -- 4; Maryland,
divided."

19. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New York, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 9; Massachusetts, Delaware, no -- 2."

20. The word "and" is here inserted in the transcript.


