TUESDAY  AUGUST 21.   IN CONVENTION

Governour LIVINGSTON from the Committee of Eleven to whom was referred
the propositions respecting the debts of the several States and also the
Militia entered on the 18th. inst: delivered the following report:

"The Legislature of the U. S. shall have power to fulfil the engagements
which have been entered into by Congress, and to discharge as well the
debts of the U. S. as the debts incurred by the several States during
the late war, for the common defence and general welfare"

"To make laws for organizing arming and disciplining the militia, and
for governing such part of them as may be employed in the service of the
U. S. reserving to the States respectively, the appointment of the
officers, and the authority of training the Militia according to the
discipline prescribed by the U. States"

Mr. GERRY considered giving the power only, without adopting the
obligation, as destroying the security now enjoyed by the public
creditors of the U-States. He enlarged on the merit of this class of
citizens, and the solemn faith which had been pledged under the existing
Confederation. If their situation should be changed as here proposed
great opposition would be excited agst. the plan. He urged also that as
the States had made different degrees of exertion to sink their
respective debts, those who had done most would be alarmed, if they were
now to be saddled with a share of the debts of States which had done
least. 

Mr. SHERMAN. It means neither more nor less than the confederation as it
relates to this subject.

Mr. ELSEWORTH moved that the Report delivered in by Govr. Livingston
should lie on the table. [1] Agreed to nem. con.

Art: VII. Sect. 3. [2] resumed. -- Mr. DICKENSON moved to postpone this
in order to reconsider Art: IV. Sect. 4. and to limit the number of
representatives to be allowed to the large States. Unless this were done
the small States would be reduced to entire insignificancy, [3] and
encouragement given to the importation of slaves.

Mr. SHERMAN would agree to such a reconsideration, but did not see the
necessity of postponing the section before the House. -- Mr. DICKENSON
withdrew his motion. Art: VII. Sect. 3. [4] then agreed to 10 ays.
Delaware alone being [5] no.

Mr. SHERMAN moved to add to Sect. 3. the following clause "and all
accounts of supplies furnished, services performed, and monies advanced
by the several States to the U. States, or by the U. S. to the several
States shall be adjusted by the same rule"

Mr. GOVERNr. MORRIS 2ds. the motion.

Mr. GHORUM, thought it wrong to insert this in the Constitution. The
Legislature will no doubt do what is right. The present Congress have
such a power and are now exercising it.

Mr. SHERMAN unless some rule be expressly given none will exist under
the new system.

Mr. ELSEWORTH. Though The contracts of Congress will be binding, there
will be no rule for executing them on the States; and one ought to be
provided.

Mr. SHERMAN withdrew his motion to make way for one of Mr. WILLIAMSON to
add to Sect. 3. "By this rule the several quotas of the States shall be
determined in Settling the expences of the late war."

Mr. CARROL brought into view the difficulty that might arise on this
subject from the establishment of the Constitution as intended without
the unanimous consent of the States

Mr. WILLIAMSON's motion was postponed nem- con-

Art: VI Sect. 12. [6] which had been postponed Aug: 15. [7] was now
called for by Col. MASON, who wished to know how the proposed amendment
as to money bills would be decided, before he agreed to any further
points.

Mr. GERRY's motion of yesterday that previous to a census, direct
taxation be proportioned on the States according to the number of
Representatives, was taken up. He observed that the principal acts of
Government would probably take place within that period, and it was but
reasonable that the States should pay in proportion to their share in
them.

Mr. ELSEWORTH thought such a rule unjust. there was a great difference
between the number of Represents., and the number of inhabitants as a
rule in this case. Even if the former were proportioned as nearly as
possible to the latter, it would be a very inaccurate rule. A State
might have one Representative only that had inhabitants enough for 1 1/2
or more, if fractions could be applied, &c -- . He proposed to amend the
motion by adding the words "subject to a final liquidation by the
foregoing rule when a census shall have been taken."

Mr. MADISON. The last apportionment of Congs., on which the number of
Representatives was founded, was conjectural and meant only as a
temporary rule till a Census should be established.

Mr. READ. The requisitions of Congs. had been accomodated to the the
impoverishments produced by the war; and to other local and temporary
circumstances -- 

Mr. WILLIAMSON opposed Mr. Gerry's motion

Mr. LANGDON was not here when N. H. was allowed three members. If [8] it
was more than her share; he did not wish for them.

Mr. BUTLER contended warmly for Mr. Gerry's motion as founded in reason
and equity.

Mr. ELSEWORTH's proviso to Mr. Gerry's motion was agreed to nem. con.

Mr. KING thought the power of taxation given to the Legislature rendered
the motion of Mr. Gerry altogether unnecessary.

On Mr. Gerry's motion as amended

N. H. no. Mas. ay. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no. N.
Ci. divd. S. C. ay. Geo. no. [9]

On a question, Shall Art: VI Sect. 12. with the amendment to it proposed
& entered on the 15 instant, as called for by Col. Mason be now taken
up? it passed in the Negative.

N. H. ay. Mas no. Ct. ay. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay. N.
C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. no [10]

Mr. L. MARTIN. The power of taxation is most likely to be criticised by
the public. Direct taxation should not be used but in case of absolute
necessity; and then the States will be best Judges of the mode. He
therefore moved the following addition to Sect: 3. Art: VII "And
whenever the Legislature of the U: S: shall find it necessary that
revenue should be raised by direct taxation, having apportioned the
same, according to the above rule on the several States, requisitions
shall be made of the respective States to pay into the Continental
Treasury their respective quotas within a time in the said requisitions
specified, and in case of any of the States failing to comply with such
requisitions, then and then only to devise and pass acts directing the
mode, and authorizing the collection of the same"

Mr. McHENRY 2ded. the motion -- there was no debate, and on the question

N. H. no. Ct. no. N. J. ay. Pena. no. Del. no. Md. divd. (Jenifer &
Carrol no). Va. no. N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [11]

Art. VII. Sect. 4. [12, 13] -- Mr. LANGDON. by this section the States
are left at liberty to tax exports. N. H. therefore with other
nonexporting States, will be subject to be taxed by the States exporting
its produce. This could not be admitted. It seems to be feared that the
Northern States will oppress the trade of the Southn. This may be
guarded agst. by requiring the concurrence of 2/3 or 3/4 of the
legislature in such cases.

Mr. ELSEWORTH. It is best as it stands. The power of regulating trade
between the States will protect them agst. each other. Should this not
be the case, the attempts of one to tax the produce of another passing
through its hands, will force a direct exportation and defeat
themselves. There are solid reasons agst. Congs. taxing exports. 1. [14]
it will discourage industry, as taxes on imports discourage luxury. 2.
[14] The produce of different States is such as to prevent uniformity in
such taxes. There are indeed but a few articles that could be taxed at
all; as Tobo. rice & indigo, and a tax on these alone would be partial &
unjust. 3. [14] The taxing of exports would engender incurable
jealousies.

Mr. WILLIAMSON. Tho' N. C. has been taxed by Virga. by a duty on 12,000
Hhs of her Tobo. exported thro' Virga. yet he would never agree to this
power. Should it take take place, it would distroy the last hope of an
adoption of the plan.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. These local considerations ought not to impede the
general interest. There is great weight in the argument, that the
exporting States will tax the produce of their uncommercial neighbours.
The power of regulating the trade between Pa. & N. Jersey will never
prevent the former from taxing the latter. Nor will such a tax force a
direct exportation from N. Jersey. The advantages possessed by a large
trading City, outweigh the disadvantage of a moderate duty; and will
retain the trade in that channel. -- If no tax can be laid on exports,
an embargo cannot be laid though in time of war such a measure may be of
critical importance. Tobacco, lumber and live-stock are three objects
belonging to different States, of which great advantage might be made by
a power to tax exports. To these may be added Ginseng and Masts for
Ships by which a tax might be thrown on other nations. The idea of
supplying the West Indies with lumber from Nova Scotia is one of the
many follies of lord Sheffield's pamphlets. The State of the Country
also will change, and render duties on exports, as skins, beaver & other
peculiar raw materials, politic in the view of encouraging American
Manufactures.

Mr. BUTLER was strenuously opposed to a power over exports; as unjust
and alarming to the Staple-States.

Mr. LANGDON suggested a prohibition on the States from taxing the
produce of other States exported from their harbours.

Mr. DICKENSON. The power of taxing exports may be inconvenient at
present; but it must be of dangerous consequence to prohibit it with
respect to all articles and for ever. He thought it would be better to
except particular articles from the power.

Mr. SHERMAN. It is best to prohibit the National legislature in all
cases. The States will never give up all power over trade. An
enumeration of particular articles would be difficult invidious and
improper.

Mr. MADISON As we aught to be governed by national and permanent views,
it is a sufficient argument for giving ye. power over exports that a
tax, tho' it may not be expedient at present, may be so hereafter. A
proper regulation of exports may & probably will be necessary hereafter,
and for the same purposes as the regulation of imports; viz, for revenue
-- domestic manufactures -- and procuring equitable regulations from
other nations. An Embargo may be of absolute necessity, and can alone be
effectuated by the Genl. authority. The regulation of trade between
State and State can not effect more than indirectly to hinder a State
from taxing its own exports; by authorizing its Citizens to carry their
commodities freely into a neighbouring State which might decline taxing
exports in order to draw into its channel the trade of its neighbours.
As to the fear of disproportionate burdens on the more exporting States,
it might be remarked that it was agreed on all hands that the revenue
wd. principally be drawn from trade, and as only a given revenue would
be needed, it was not material whether all should be drawn wholly from
imports -- or half from those, and half from exports. The imports and
exports must be pretty nearly equal in every State -- and relatively the
same among the different States.

Mr. ELSEWORTH did not conceive an embargo by the Congress interdicted by
this section.

Mr. McHENRY conceived that power to be included in the power of war.

Mr. WILSON. Pennsylvania exports the produce of Maryd. N. Jersey,
Delaware & will by & by when the River Delaware is opened, export for
N-York. In favoring the general power over exports therefore, he opposed
the particular interest of his State. He remarked that the power had
been attacked by reasoning which could only have held good in case the
Genl Govt. had been compelled, instead of authorized, to lay duties on
exports. To deny this power is to take from the Common Govt. half the
regulation of trade. It was his opinion that a power over exports might
be more effectual than that over imports in obtaining beneficial
treaties of commerce

Mr. GERRY was strenuously opposed to the power over exports. It might be
made use of to compel the States to comply with the will of the Genl.
Government, and to grant it any new powers which might be demanded. We
have given it more power already than we know how will be exercised. It
will enable the Genl. Govt. to oppress the States as much as Ireland is
oppressed by Great Britain.

Mr. FITZIMMONS would be agst. a tax on exports to be laid immediately;
but was for giving a power of laying the tax when a proper time may call
for it. This would certainly be the case when America should become a
manufacturing Country. He illustrated his argument by the duties in G.
Britain on wool &c.

Col. MASON. If he were for reducing the States to mere corporations as
seemed to be the tendency of some arguments, he should be for subjecting
their exports as well as imports to a power of general taxation. He went
on a principle often advanced & in which he concurred, that "a majority
when interested will oppress the minority." This maxim had been verified
by our own Legislature [of Virginia]. If we compare the States in this
point of view the 8 Northern States have an interest different from the
five Southn. States; and have in one branch of the legislature 36 votes
agst. 29. and in the other, in the proportion of 8 agst. 5. The Southern
States had therefore good ground for their suspicions. The case of
Exports was not the same with that of imports. The latter were the same
throughout the States: The former very different. As to Tobacco other
nations do raise it, and are capable of raising it as well as Virga. &c.
The impolicy of taxing that article had been demonstrated by the
experiment of Virginia.

Mr. CLYMER remarked that every State might reason with regard to its
particular productions, in the same manner as the Southern States. The
middle States may apprehend an oppression of their wheat flour,
provisions &c. and with more reason, as these articles were exposed to a
competition in foreign markets not incident to Tobo. rice &c. They may
apprehend also combinations agst. them between the Eastern & Southern
States as much as the latter can apprehend them between the Eastern &
middle. He moved as a qualification of the power of taxing Exports that
it should be restrained to regulations of trade, by inserting after the
word "duty" Sect 4 art VII the words, "for the purpose of revenue."

On [15] Question on Mr. Clymer's motion

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. no. Va. no. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [16]

Mr. MADISON. In order to require 2/3 of each House to tax exports -- as
a lesser evil than a total prohibition moved to insert the words "unless
by consent of two thirds of the Legislature."

Mr. WILSON 2ds. and on this question, it passed in the Negative. N. H.
ay. Mas. ay. Ct. no. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. no. Va. no [Col.
Mason, Mr. Randolph, Mr. Blair no. Genl. Washington & J. M. ay.] N. C.
no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [17, 18] Question on Sect: 4. art VII. as far as
to "no tax shl. be laid on exports -- It passed in the affirmative.

N. H. no. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay
(Genl. W. & J. M. no) N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [19]

Mr. L. MARTIN, proposed to vary the Sect: 4. art VII. so as to allow a
prohibition or tax on the importation of slaves. 1. [20] as five slaves
are to be counted as 3 free men in the apportionment of Representatives;
such a clause wd. leave an encouragement to this trafic. 2. [21] slaves
weakened one part of the Union which the other parts were bound to
protect: the privilege of importing them was therefore unreasonable. 3.
[22] it was inconsistent with the principles of the revolution and
dishonorable to the American character to have such a feature in the
Constitution.

Mr. RUTLIDGE did not see how the importation of slaves could be
encouraged by this Section. He was not apprehensive of insurrections and
would readily exempt the other States from the obligation to protect the
Southern against them. -- Religion & humanity had nothing to do with
this question. Interest alone is the governing principle with nations.
The true question at present is whether the Southn. States shall or
shall not be parties to the Union. If the Northern States consult their
interest, they will not oppose the increase of Slaves which will
increase the commodities of which they will become the carriers.

Mr. ELSEWORTH was for leaving the clause as it stands. let every State
import what it pleases. The morality or wisdom of slavery are
considerations belonging to the States themselves. What enriches a part
enriches the whole, and the States are the best judges of their
particular interest. The old confederation had not meddled with this
point, and he did not see any greater necessity for bringing it within
the policy of the new one:

Mr. PINKNEY. South Carolina can never receive the plan if it prohibits
the slave trade. In every proposed extension of the powers of the
Congress, that State has expressly & watchfully excepted that of
meddling with the importation of negroes. If the States be all left at
liberty on this subject, S. Carolina may perhaps by degrees do of
herself what is wished, as Virginia & Maryland have already [23] done.

Adjourned

___________

1. The words "which was" are here inserted in the transcript.

2. The words "was then" are here inserted in the transcript.

3. The word "insignificancy" is changed to "insgnificance" in the
transcript.

4. The word "was" is here inserted in the trancript.

5. The word "being" is omitted in the transcripty.

6. See ante.

7. The words "on the fifiteenth of August" are substituted in the
transcript for "Aug: 15."

8. The word "if" is omitted in the transcript.

9. In the transcript the vote reads "Massachusetts, South Carolina, aye
-- 2; New Hampshire, connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware,
Maryland, Virginia, Georgia, no -- 8; North Carolina, divided."

10. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Connecticut,
Virginia, Maryland, North Carolina, aye -- 5; Massachusetts, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 6."

11. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Jersey, aye -- 1; New
Hampshire, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8; Maryland, divided [Jenifer
and Caroll, no]."

12. See ante.

13. The words "was then taken up" are here inserted in the transcript.

14. The figures "1," "2" and "3" are changed in the transcript to
"First," "Secondly" and "Thirdly."

15. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

16. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Aye -- 3; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Maryland,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8."

17. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, aye -- 5; uConnecticut, Maryland,
Virginia [Col. Mason, Mr. Randolph, Mr. Blair, no; General Washington,
Mr. Madison, aye] North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 6."

18. The words "On the" are here inserted in the transcrpt.

19. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut,
Maryland, Virginia [Genl. Washington and Mr. Madison, no] North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georiga, aye -- 7; New Hampshire, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, no -- 4."

20. The figure "1" is changed in the transcript to "In the first place."

21. The figure "2" is changed in the transcript to "In the second
place."

22. The figure "3" is changed in the transcript to "And in the third
place."

23. The words "have already" are transposed in the transcript to read
"already have."


