MONDAY.  JUNE 25.   IN CONVENTION

Resolution 4. [1] being taken up.

Mr. PINKNEY [2] spoke as follows -- The efficacy of the System will
depend on this article. In order to form a right judgmt. in the case, it
will be proper to examine the situation of this Country more accurately
than it has yet been done. The people of the U. States are perhaps the
most singular of any we are acquainted with. Among them there are fewer
distinctions of fortune & less of rank, than among the inhabitants of
any other nation. Every freeman has a right to the same protection &
security; and a very moderate share of property entitles them to the
possession of all the honors and privileges the public can bestow: hence
arises a greater equality, than is to be found among the people of any
other country, and an equality which is more likely to continue -- I say
this equality is likely to continue, because in a new Country,
possessing immense tracts of uncultivated lands, where every temptation
is offered to emigration & where industry must be rewarded with
competency, there will be few poor, and few dependent -- Every member of
the Society almost, will enjoy an equal power of arriving at the supreme
offices & consequently of directing the strength & sentiments of the
whole Community. None will be excluded by birth, & few by fortune, from
voting for proper persons to fill the offices of Government -- the whole
community will enjoy in the fullest sense that kind of political liberty
which consists in the power the members of the State reserve to
themselves, of arriving at the public offices, or at least, of having
votes in the nomination of those who fill them.

If this State of things is true & the prospect of its continuing [3]
probable, it is perhaps not politic to endeavour too close an imitation
of a Government calculated for a people whose situation is, & whose
views ought to be extremely different Much has been said of the
Constitution of G. Britain. I will confess that I believe it to be the
best Constitution in existence; but at the same time I am confident it
is one that will not or can not be introduced into this Country, for
many centuries. -- If it were proper to go here into a historical
dissertation on the British Constitution, it might easily be shewn that
the peculiar excellence, the distinguishing feature of that Governmt.
can not possibly be introduced into our System -- that its balance
between the Crown & the people can not be made a part of our
Constitution. -- that we neither have or can have the members to compose
it, nor the rights, privileges & properties of so distinct a class of
Citizens to guard. -- that the materials for forming this balance or
check do not exist, nor is there a necessity for having so permanent a
part of our Legislative, until the Executive power is so constituted as
to have something fixed & dangerous in its principle -- By this I mean a
sole, hereditary, though limited Executive.

That we cannot have a proper body for forming a Legislative balance
between the inordinate power of the Executive and the people, is evident
from a review of the accidents & circumstances which gave rise to the
peerage of Great Britain -- I believe it is well ascertained that the
parts which compose the British Constitution arose immediately from the
forests of Germany; but the antiquity of the establishment of nobility
is by no means clearly defined. Some authors are of opinion that the
dignity denoted by the titles of dux et [4] comes, was derived from the
old Roman to the German Empire; while others are of opinion that they
existed among the Germans long before the Romans were acquainted with
them. The institution however of nobility is immemorial among the
nations who may probably be termed the ancestors of [5] Britain. -- At
the time they were summoned in England to become a part of the National
Council, and [6] the circumstances which have [6] contributed to make
them a constituent part of that constitution, must be well known to all
gentlemen who have had industry & curiosity enough to investigate the
subject -- The nobles with their possessions & and dependents composed a
body permanent in their nature and formidable in point of power. They
had a distinct interest both from the King and the people; an interest
which could only be represented by themselves, and the guardianship [7]
could not be safely intrusted to others. -- At the time they were
originally called to form a part of the National Council, necessity
perhaps as much as other cause, induced the Monarch to look up to them.
It was necessary to demand the aid of his subjects in personal &
pecuniary services. The power and possessions of the Nobility would not
permit taxation from any assembly of which they were not a part: & the
blending [8] the deputies of the Commons with them, & thus forming what
they called their parler-ment [9] was perhaps as much the effect of
chance as of any thing else. The Commons were at that time compleatly
subordinate to the nobles, whose consequence & influence seem to have
been the only reasons for their superiority; a superiority so degrading
to the Commons that in the first Summons we find the peers are called
upon to consult, [10] the commons to consent. [10] From this time the
peers have composed a part of the British Legislature, and
notwithstanding their power and influence have diminished & those of the
Commons have increased, yet still they have always formed an excellent
balance agst. either the encroachments of the Crown or the people.

I have said that such a body cannot exist in this Country for ages, and
that untill the situation of our people is exceedingly changed no
necessity will exist for so permanent a part of the Legislature. To
illustrate this I have remarked that the people of the United States are
more equal in their circumstances than the people of any other Country
-- that they have very few rich men among them, -- by rich men I mean
those whose riches may have a dangerous influence, or such as are
esteemed rich in Europe -- perhaps there are not one hundred such on the
Continent; that it is not probable this number will be greatly
increased: that the genius of the people, their mediocrity of situation
& the prospects which are afforded their industry in a Country which
must be a new one for centuries are unfavorable to the rapid distinction
of ranks. The destruction of the right of primogeniture & the equal
division of the property of Intestates will also have an effect to
preserve this mediocrity; for laws invariably affect the manners of a
people. On the other hand that vast extent of unpeopled territory which
opens to the frugal & industrious a sure road to competency &
independence will effectually prevent for a considerable time the
increase of the poor or discontented, and be the means of preserving
that equality of condition which so eminently distinguishes us.

If equality is as I contend the leading feature of the U. States, where
then are the riches & wealth whose representation & protection is the
peculiar province of this permanent body. Are they in the hands of the
few who may be called rich; in the possession of less than a hundred
citizens? certainly not. They are in the great body of the people, among
whom there are no men of wealth, and very few of real poverty. -- Is it
probable that a change will be created, and that a new order of men will
arise? If under the British Government, for a century no such change was
probable, [11] I think it may be fairly concluded it will not take place
while even the semblance of Republicanism remains. -- How is this change
to be effected? Where are the sources from whence it is to flow? From
the landed interest? No. That is too unproductive & too much divided in
most of the States. From the Monied interest? If such exists at present,
little is to be apprehended from that source. Is it to spring from
commerce? I believe it would be the first instance in which a nobility
sprang from merchants. Besides, Sir, I apprehend that on this point the
policy of the U. States has been much mistaken. We have unwisely
considered ourselves as the inhabitants of an old instead of a new
country. We have adopted the maxims of a State full of people &
manufactures & established in credit. We have deserted our true
interest, and instead of applying closely to those improvements in
domestic policy which would have ensured the future importance of our
commerce, we have rashly & prematurely engaged in schemes as extensive
as they are imprudent. This however is an error which daily corrects
itself & I have no doubt that a few more severe trials will convince us,
that very different commercial principles ought to govern the conduct of
these States.

The people of this country are not only very different from the
inhabitants of any State we are acquainted with in the modern world; but
I assert that their situation is distinct from either the people of
Greece or Rome, or of any State we are acquainted with among the
antients. -- Can the orders introduced by the institution of Solon, can
they be found in the United States? Can the military habits & manners of
Sparta be resembled to our habits & manners? Are the distinctions of
Patrician & Plebeian known among us? Can the Helvetic or Belgic
confederacies, or can the unwieldy, unmeaning body called the Germanic
Empire, can they be said to possess either the same or a situation like
ours? I apprehend not. -- They are perfectly different, in their
distinctions of rank, their Constitutions, their manners & their policy.

Our true situation appears to me to be this. -- a new extensive Country
containing within itself the materials for forming a Government capable
of extending to its citizens all the blessings of civil & religious
liberty -- capable of making them happy at home. This is the great end
of Republican Establishments. We mistake the object of our Government,
if we hope or wish that it is to make us respectable abroad. Conquest or
superiority among other powers is not or ought not ever to be the object
of republican systems. If they are sufficiently active & energetic to
rescue us from contempt & preserve our domestic happiness & security, it
is all we can expect from them, -- it is more than almost any other
Government ensures to its citizens.

I believe this observation will be found generally true: -- that no two
people are so exactly alike in their situation or circumstances as to
admit the exercise of the same Government with equal benefit: that a
system must be suited to the habits & genius of the people it is to
govern, and must grow out of them.

The people of the U. S. may be divided into three classes --
Professional men who must from their particular pursuits always have a
considerable weight in the Government while it remains popular --
Commercial men, who may or may not have weight as a wise or injudicious
commercial policy is pursued. -- If that commercial policy is pursued
which I conceive to be the true one, the merchants of this Country will
not or ought not for a considerable time to have much weight in the
political scale. -- The third is the landed interest, the owners and
cultivators of the soil, who are and ought ever to be the governing
spring in the system. -- These three classes, however distinct in their
pursuits are individually equal in the political scale, and may be
easily proved to have but one interest. The dependence of each on the
other is mutual. The merchant depends on the planter. Both must in
private as well as public affairs be connected with the professional
men; who in their turn must in some measure depend upon 12 them. Hence
it is clear from this manifest connection, & the equality which I before
stated exists, & must for the reasons then assigned, continue, that
after all there is one, but one great & equal body of citizens composing
the inhabitants of this Country among whom there are no distinctions of
rank, and very few or none of fortune.

For a people thus circumstanced are we then to form a government & the
question is what kind [13] of Government is best suited to them.

Will it be the British Govt.? No. Why? Because G. Britain contains three
orders of people distinct in their situation, their possessions & their
principles. -- These orders combined form the great body of the Nation,
and as in national expences the wealth of the whole community must
contribute, so ought each component part to be properly & duly [14]
represented -- No other combination of power could form this due
representation, but the one that exists. -- Neither the peers or the
people could represent the royalty, nor could the Royalty & the people
form a proper representation for the Peers. -- Each therefore must of
necessity be represented by itself, or the sign of itself; and this
accidental mixture has certainly formed a Government admirably well
balanced.

But the U. States contain but one order that can be assimilated to the
British Nation, -- this is the order of Commons. They will not surely
then attempt to form a Government consisting of three branches, two of
which shall have nothing to represent. They will not have an Executive &
Senate [hereditary] because the King & Lords of England are so. The same
reasons do not exist and therefore the same provisions are not
necessary.

We must as has been observed suit our Governmt. to the people it is to
direct. These are I believe as active, intelligent & susceptible of good
Governmt. as any people in the world. The Confusion which has produced
the present relaxed State is not owing to them. It is owing to the
weakness & [defects] of a Govt. incapable of combining the various
interests it is intended to unite, and destitute of energy. -- All that
we have to do then is to distribute the powers of Govt. in such a
manner, and for such limited periods, as while it gives a proper degree
of permanency to the Magistrate, will reserve to the people, the right
of election they will not or ought not frequently to part with. -- I am
of opinion that this may be easily [15] done; and that with some
amendments the propositions before the Committee will fully answer this
end.

No position appears to me more true than this; that the General Govt.
can not effectually exist without reserving to the States the possession
of their local rights. They are the instruments upon which the Union
must frequently depend for the support & execution of their powers,
however immediately operating upon the people, and not upon the States.

Much has been said about the propriety of abolishing the distinction of
State Governments, & having but one general System. Suffer me for a
moment to examine this question. [*16]

The mode of constituting the 2d. branch being under consideration.

The word "national" was struck out and "United States" inserted.

Mr. GHORUM, inclined to a compromise as to the rule of proportion. He
thought there was some weight in the objections of the small States. If
Va. should have 16. votes & Delre. with several other States together
16. those from Virga. would be more likely to unite than the others, and
would therefore have an undue influence. This remark was applicable not
only to States, but to Counties or other districts of the same State.
Accordingly the Constitution of Massts. had provided that the
representatives of the larger districts should not be in an exact ratio
to their numbers. And experience he thought had shewn the provision to
be expedient.

Mr. READ. The States have heretofore been in a sort of partnership. They
ought to adjust their old affairs before they open [18] a new account.
He brought into view the appropriation of the common interest in the
Western lands, to the use of particular States. Let justice be done on
this head; let the fund be applied fairly & equally to the discharge of
the general debt, and the smaller States who had been injured; would
listen then perhaps to those ideas of just representation which had been
held out.

Mr. GHORUM. did [19] not see how the Convention could interpose in the
case. Errors he allowed had been committed on the subject. But Congs.
were now using their endeavors to rectify them. The best remedy would be
such a Government as would have vigor enough to do justice throughout.
This was certainly the best chance that could be afforded to the smaller
States.

Mr. WILSON. the question is shall the members of the 2d. branch be
chosen by the Legislatures of the States? When he considered the amazing
extent of Country -- the immense population which is to fill it, the
influence which [20] the Govt. we are to form will have, not only on the
present generation of our people & their multiplied posterity, but on
the whole Globe, he was lost in the magnitude of the object. The project
of Henry the 4th. & his Statesmen was but the picture in miniature of
the great portrait to be exhibited. He was opposed to an election by the
State Legislatures. In explaining his reasons it was necessary to
observe the twofold relation in which the people would stand. 1. [21] as
Citizens of the Genl. Govt. 2. [21] as Citizens of their particular
State. The Genl. Govt. was meant for them in the first capacity: the
State Govts. in the second. Both Govts. were derived from the people --
both meant for the people -- both therefore ought to be regulated on the
same principles. The same train of ideas which belonged to the relation
of the Citizens to their State Govts. were applicable to their relation
to the Genl. Govt. and in forming the latter, we ought to proceed, by
abstracting as much as possible from the idea of [22] State Govts. With
respect to the province & objects [23] of the Genl. Govt. they should be
considered as having no existence. The election of the 2d. branch by the
Legislatures, will introduce & cherish local interests & local
prejudices. The Genl. Govt. is not an assemblage of States, but of
individuals for certain political purposes -- it is not meant for the
States, but for the individuals composing them; the individuals
therefore not the States, ought to be represented in it: A proportion in
this representation can be preserved in the 2d. as well as in the 1st.
branch; and the election can be made by electors chosen by the people
for that purpose. He moved an amendment to that effect which was not
seconded.

Mr. ELSEWORTH saw no reason for departing from the mode contained in the
Report. Whoever chooses the member, he will be a Citizen of the State he
is to represent & will feel the same spirit & act the same part whether
he be appointed by the people or the Legislature. Every State has its
particular views & prejudices, which will find their way into the
general councils, through whatever channel they may flow. Wisdom was one
of the characteristics which it was in contemplation to give the second
branch. Would not more of it issue from the Legislatures; than from an
immediate election by the people. He urged the necessity of maintaining
the existence & agency of the States. Without their co-operation it
would be impossible to support a Republican Govt. over so great an
extent of Country. An army could scarcely render it practicable. The
largest States are the worst Governed. Virga. is obliged to acknowledge
her incapacity to extend her Govt. to Kentucky. Masts. can not keep the
peace one hundred miles from her capitol and is now forming an army for
its support. How long Pena. may be free from a like situation can not be
foreseen. If the principles & materials of our Govt. are not adequate to
the extent of these single States; how can it be imagined that they can
support a single Govt. throughout the U. States. The only chance of
supporting a Genl. Govt. lies in engrafting [24] it on that [25] of the
individual States.

DOCr. JOHNSON urged the necessity of preserving the State Govts. which
would be at the mercy of the Genl. Govt. on Mr. Wilson's plan.

Mr. MADISON thought it wd. obviate difficulty if the present resol: were
postponed. & the 8th. taken up, which is to fix the right of suffrage in
the 2d. branch.

DOCr. [26] WILLIAMSON professed himself a friend to such a system as
would secure the existence of the State Govts. The happiness of the
people depended on it. He was at a loss to give his vote as to the
Senate untill he knew the number of its members. In order to ascertain
this, he moved to insert these words [27] after "2d. branch of the Natl.
Legislature" -- [28] "who shall bear such proportion to the no. of the
1st. branch as 1 to _____." He was not seconded.

Mr. MASON. It has been agreed on all hands that an efficient Govt. is
necessary that to render it such it ought to have the faculty of
self-defence, that to render its different branches effectual each of
them ought to have the same power of self defence. He did not wonder
that such an agreement should have prevailed in [29] these points. He
only wondered that there should be any disagreement about the necessity
of allowing the State Govts. the same self-defence. If they are to be
preserved as he conceived to be essential, they certainly ought to have
this power, and the only mode left of giving it to them, was by allowing
them to appoint the 2d. branch of the Natl. Legislature.

Mr. BUTLER observing that we were put to difficulties at every step by
the uncertainty whether an equality or a ratio of representation wd.
prevail finally in the 2d. branch, moved to postpone the 4th. Resol: &
to proceed to the [30] Resol: on that point. Mr. MADISON seconded him.

On the question Massts. no. Cont. no. N. Y. ay. N. J. no. Pa.. no. Del.
no. Md. no. Va. ay. N. C. no. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [31]

On a question to postpone the 4 and take up the 7. Resol: ays [32] --
Mard. Va. N. C. S. C. Geo: -- Noes [33] Mas. Ct. N. Y. N. J. Pa. Del:
[33]

On the question to agree "that the members of the 2d. branch be chosen
by the indivl. Legislatures" Masts. ay. Cont. ay. N. Y. ay. N. J. ay.
Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. no. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [*34, 35]

On a question on the clause requiring the age of 30 years at least -- "
it was agreed to unanimously: [36]

On a question to strike out -- the words "sufficient to ensure their
independency [37] " after the word "term" it was agreed to.

[38] That the 2d. branch hold their offices for [39] term of seven
years, [40] considered.

Mr. GHORUM suggests a term of "4 years," 1/4 to be elected every year.

Mr. RANDOLPH. supported the idea of rotation, as favorable to the wisdom
& stability of the Corps, which might possibly be always sitting, and
aiding the Executive. And moves after "7 years" to add, "to go out in
fixt proportion" which was agreed to.

Mr. WILLIAMSON. suggest "6 years," as more convenient for Rotation than
7 years.

Mr. SHERMAN seconds him.

Mr. REED proposed that they sd. hold their offices "during good"
behaviour. Mr. R. MORRIS seconds him.

Genl. PINKNEY proposed "4 years." A longer term [41] wd. fix them at the
seat of Govt. They wd. acquire an interest there, perhaps transfer their
property & lose sight of the States they represent. Under these
circumstances the distant States wd. labour under great disadvantages.

Mr. SHERMAN moved to strike out "7 years" in order to take questions on
the several propositions.

On the question to strike out "seven"

Masts. ay. Cont. ay. N. Y. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del no. Md. divd. Va.
no. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [42]

On the question to insert "6 years, which failed 5 Sts. being ay. 5 no.
& 1 divided

Masts. no. Cont. ay. N. Y. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del ay. Md. divd. Va.
ay. N. C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. no. [43]

On a motion to adjourn, the votes were 5 for 5 agst. it & 1 divided, --
Con. N. J. Pa. Del. Va. -- ay. [44] Massts. N. Y. N. C. S. C. Geo: no.
[44] Maryd. divided.

On the question for "5 years" it was lost.

Masts. no. Cont. ay. N. Y. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. divd. Va.
ay. N. C. ay. S. C. no. Geo no. [45]

Adjd.

___________

1. The words "The fourth Resolution" are substituted in the transcript
for "Resolution 4."

2. Pinckney furnished Madison with a copy of this speech which he
transcribed, but apparently not with the whole of it, as Madison's note
at the end indicates. The original Pinckney draft is among the Madison
papers, and shows Madison's copying to have been accurate.

3. The word "continuance" is substituted in the transcript for
"continuing."

4. The word "and" is substituted in the transcript for "et."

5. The word "Great" is here inserted in the transcript.

6. The words "and" and "have" are crossed out in the transcript.

7. The words "of which" are here inserted in the transcript.

8. The word "of" is here inserted in the transcript.

9. The transcript italicizes the word "parler-ment."

10. The transcript italicizes the words "consult" and "consent."

11. The word "produced" is substituted for the word "probable" in the
transcript.

12. The word "on" is substituted in the transcript for "upon."

13. The word "sort" is substituted in the transcript for "kind."

14. The words "properly & duly" are transposed in the transcript to read
"duly and properly."

15. The words "be easily" are transposed in the transcript to "easily
be."

*16. The residue of this speech was not furnished like the above by Mr.
Pinckney. [17]

17. "The residue" of Pinckney's speech, according to Robert Yates was as
follows:

"The United States include a territory of about 1500 miles in length,
and in breadth about 400; the whole of which is divided into states and
districts. While we were dependent on the crown of Great Britain, it was
in contemplation to have formed the whole into one -- but it was found
impracticable. No legislature could make good laws for the whole, nor
can it now be done. It would necessarily place the power in the hands of
the few, nearest the seat of government. State governments must
therefore remain, if you mean to prevent confusion. The general negative
powers will support the general government. Upon these considerations I
am led to form the second branch differently from the report. Their
powers are important and the number not too large, upon the principle of
proportion. I have considered the subject with great attention; and I
propose this plan (reads it) and if no better plan is proposed, I will
then move its adoption." Secret Proceedings and Debates of the
Convention Assembled at Philadelphia, in the year 1787, for the purpose
of forming the Constitution of the United States of America, by Robert
Yates (1821), p. 163.

18. The word "opened" is substituted in the transcript for "open."

19. The word "could" is substituted in the transcript for "did."

20. The word "of" is substituted in the transcript for "which."

21. The figure "1" is changed in the transcript to "first," and the
figure "2" to "and secondly."

22. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

23. The word "objects" is used in the singular in the transcript.

24. The word "grafting" is substituted in the transcript for
"engrafting."

25. The word "those" is substituted in the transcript for "that."

26. The word "Mr." is substituted in the transcript for "Docr."

27. The words "these words" are omitted in the transcript.

28. The words "the words" are here inserted in the transcript.

29. The word "on" is substituted in the transcript for "in."

30. The word "eighth" is here inserted in the transcript.

31. In the transcript the vote reads: "New York, Virginia, South
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 4; Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina, no -- 7."

32. The word "ays" is omitted in the transcript.

33. The word "noes" is omitted in the transcript; "aye -- 5" being
inserted after "Georgia" and "no -- 6" after "Delaware."

*34. It must be kept in view that the largest States particularly
Pennsylvania & Virginia always considered the choice of the 2d. Branch
by the State Legislatures as opposed to a proportional Representation to
which they were attached as a fundamental principle of just Government.
The smaller States who had opposite views, were reinforced by the
members from the large States most anxious to secure the importance of
the State Governments.

35. In the transcript this vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
York, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina,
Georgia, aye -- 9; Pennsylvania, Virginia, no -- 2."

36. The words "agreed to unanimously" are transposed in the transcript
to read "unanimously agreed to."

37. The word "independency" is changed to "independence" in the
transcript.

38. The words "The clause" are here inserted in the transcript.

39. The word "a" is here inserted in the transcript.

40. The word "being" is here inserted in the transcript.

41. The word "time" is substituted in the transcript for "term." 42 In
the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York,
New Jersey, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 7;
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Virginia, no -- 3; Maryland, divided."

43. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Virginia, North Carolina, aye -- 5; Massachusetts, New York,
New Jersey, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 5; Maryland, divided."

44. The figure "5" is here inserted in the transcript.

45. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Virginia, North Carolina, aye -- 5; Massachusetts, New York,
New Jersey, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 5; Maryland, divided."


