TUESDAY  JULY 26.   IN CONVENTION

Col. [1] MASON. In every Stage of the Question relative to the
Executive, the difficulty of the subject and the diversity of the
opinions concerning it have appeared. Nor have any of the modes of
constituting that department been satisfactory. 1. [2] It has been
proposed that the election should be made by the people at large; that
is that an act which ought to be performed by those who know most of
Eminent characters, & qualifications, should be performed by those who
know least. 2. [2] that the election should be made by the Legislatures
of the States. 3. [2] by the Executives of the States. Agst. these modes
also strong objections have been urged. 4. [2] It has been proposed that
the election should be made by Electors chosen by the people for that
purpose. This was at first agreed to: But on further consideration has
been rejected. 5. [2] Since which, the mode of Mr. Williamson, requiring
each freeholder to vote for several candidates has been proposed. This
seemed like many other propositions, to carry a plausible face, but on
closer inspection is liable to fatal objections. A popular election in
any form, as Mr. Gerry has observed, would throw the appointment into
the hands of the Cincinnati, a Society for the members of which he had a
great respect; but which he never wished to have a preponderating
influence in the Govt. 6. [3] Another expedient was proposed by Mr.
Dickenson, which is liable to so palpable & material an inconvenience
that he had little doubt of its being by this time rejected by himself.
It would exclude every man who happened not to be popular within his own
State; tho' the causes of his local unpopularity might be of such a
nature as to recommend him to the States at large. 7. 3 Among other
expedients, a lottery has been introduced. But as the tickets do not
appear to be in much demand, it will probably, not be carried on, and
nothing therefore need be said on that subject. After reviewing all
these various modes, he was led to conclude, that an election by the
Natl. Legislature as originally proposed, was the best. If it was liable
to objections, it was liable to fewer than any other. He conceived at
the same time that a second election ought to be absolutely prohibited.
Having for his primary object, for the pole [4] -- star of his political
conduct, the preservation of the rights of the people, he held it as an
essential point, as the very palladium of Civil liberty, that the great
officers of State, and particularly the Executive should at fixed
periods return to that mass from which they were at first taken, in
order that they may feel & respect those rights & interests, which are
again to be personally valuable to them. He concluded with moving that
the constitution of the Executive as reported by the Come. of the whole
be re-instated, viz. "that the Executive be appointed for seven years, &
be ineligible a 2d. time"

Mr. DAVIE seconded the motion

DOCr. FRANKLIN. It seems to have been imagined by some that the
returning to the mass of the people was degrading the magistrate. This
he thought was contrary to republican principles. In free Governments
the rulers are the servants, and the people their superiors &
sovereigns. For the former therefore to return among the latter was not
to degrade but to promote them. And it would be imposing an unreasonable
burden on them, to keep them always in a State of servitude, and not
allow them to become again one of the Masters.

[5] Question on Col. Masons motion as above; which 6 passed in the
affirmative

N. H. ay. Masts. not on floor. Ct. no. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. no. Md.
ay. Va. ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [7]

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS was now agst. the whole paragraph. In answer to Col.
Mason's position that a periodical return of the great officers of the
State into the mass of the people, was the palladium of Civil liberty he
wd. observe that on the same principle the Judiciary ought to be
periodically degraded; certain it was that the Legislature ought on
every principle, yet no one had proposed, or conceived that the members
of it should not be re-eligible. In answer to Docr. Franklin, that a
return into the mass of the people would be a promotion, instead of a
degradation, he had no doubt that our Executive like most others would
have too much patriotism to shrink from the burden of his office, and
too much modesty not to be willing to decline the promotion.

On the question on the whole resolution as amended in the words
following -- "that a National Executive be instituted -- to consist of a
single person -- to be chosen by the Natl. legislature -- for the term
of seven years -- to be ineligible a 2d. time -- with power to carry
into execution the natl. laws -- to appoint to offices in cases not
otherwise provided for -- to be removable on impeachment & conviction of
malpractice or neglect of duty -- to receive a fixt compensation for the
devotion of his time to the public service, to be paid out of the Natl.
treasury" -- it passed in the affirmative

N. H. ay. Mas. not on floor. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no.
Va. divd. Mr. Blair & Col. Mason ay. Genl. Washington & Mr. Madison no.
Mr. Randolph happened to be out of the House. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo.
ay. [8]

Mr. MASON moved "that the Committee of detail be instructed to receive a
clause requiring certain qualifications of landed property & citizenship
of the U. States in members of the [9] Legislature, and disqualifying
persons having unsettled Accts. with or being indebted to the U. S. from
being members of the Natl. Legislature" -- He observed that persons of
the latter descriptions had frequently got into the State Legislatures,
in order to promote laws that might shelter their delinquencies; and
that this evil had crept into Congs. if Report was to be regarded.

Mr. PINCKNEY seconded the motion

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. If qualifications are proper, he wd. prefer them in
the electors rather than the elected. As to debtors of the U. S. they
are but few. As to persons having unsettled accounts he believed them to
pretty many. He thought however that such a discrimination would be both
odious & useless, and in many instances unjust & cruel. The delay of
settlemt. had been more the fault of the public than of the individuals.
What will be done with those patriotic Citizens who have lent money, or
services or property to their Country, without having been yet able to
obtain a liquidation of their claims? Are they to be excluded?

Mr. GHORUM was for leaving to the Legislature, the providing agst. such
abuses as had been mentioned.

Col. MASON mentioned the parliamentary qualifications adopted in the
Reign of Queen Anne, which he said had met with universal approbation.

Mr. MADISON had witnessed the zeal of men having accts. with the public,
to get into the Legislatures for sinister purposes. He thought however
that if any precaution were to be [10] taken for excluding them, the one
proposed, by Col. Mason ought to be new [11] modelled. It might be well
to limit the exclusion to persons who had recd. money from the public,
and had not accounted for it.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. It was a precept of great antiquity as well as [12]
high authority that we should not be righteous overmuch. He thought we
ought to be equally on our guard agst. being wise over much. The
proposed regulation would enable the Govent. to exclude particular
persons from office as long as they pleased He mentioned the case of the
Commander in Chief's presenting his account for secret services, which
he said was so moderate that every one was astonished at it; and so
simple that no doubt could arise on it. Yet had the Auditor been
disposed to delay the settlement, how easily might he [13] have effected
it, & how cruel wd. it be in such a case to keep a distinguished &
meritorious Citizen under a temporary disability & disfranchisement. He
mentioned this case merely to illustrate the objectionable nature of the
proposition. He was opposed to such minutious regulations in a
Constitution. The parliamentary qualifications quoted by Col. Mason, had
been disregarded in practice; and was but a scheme of the landed agst.
the monied interest.

Mr. PINCKNEY & GENl. PINCKNEY moved to insert by way of amendmt. the
words Judiciary & Executive so as to extend the qualifications to those
departments which was agreed to nem. con.

Mr. GERRY thought the inconveniency [14] of excluding a few worthy
individuals who might be public debtors or have unsettled accts. ought
not to be put in the scale agst. the public advantages of the
regulation, and that the motion did not go far enough.

Mr. KING observed that there might be great danger in requiring landed
property as a qualification since it would [15] exclude the monied
interest, whose aids may be essential in particular emergencies to the
public safety. Mr. DICKENSON, was agst. any recital of qualifications in
the Constitution. It was impossible to make a compleat one, and a
partial one wd. by implication tie up the hands of the Legislature from
supplying the omissions, The best defence lay in the freeholders who
were to elect the Legislature. Whilst this Source [16] should remain
pure, the public interest would be safe. If it ever should be corrupt,
no little expedients would repel the danger. He doubted the policy of
interweaving into a Republican constitution a veneration for wealth. He
had always understood that a veneration for poverty & virtue, were the
objects of republican encouragement. It seemed improper that any man of
merit should be subjected to disabilities in a Republic where merit was
understood to form the great title to public trust, honors & rewards.

Mr. GERRY if property be one object of Government. provisions for securing
[17] it cannot be improper.

Mr. MADISON moved to strike out the word landed, before the word
"qualifications." If the proposition sd. be agreed to he wished the
Committee to be at liberty to report the best criterion they could
devise. Landed possessions were no certain evidence of real wealth. Many
enjoyed them to a great extent who were more in debt than they were
worth. The unjust laws of the States had proceeded more from this class
of men, than any others. It had often happened that men who had acquired
landed property on credit, got into the Legislatures with a view of
promoting an unjust protection agst. their Creditors. In the next place,
if a small quantity of land should be made the standard, it would be no
security; if a large one, it would exclude the proper representatives of
those classes of Citizens who were not landholders. It was politic as
well as just that the interests & rights of every class should be duly
represented & understood in the public Councils. It was a provision
every where established that the Country should be divided into
districts & representatives taken from each, in order that the
Legislative Assembly might equally understand & sympathise, with the
rights of the people in every part of the Community. It was not less
proper that every class of Citizens should have an opportunity of making
their rights be felt & understood in the public Councils. The three
principal classes into which our citizens were divisible, were the
landed the commercial, & the manufacturing. The 2d. & 3d. class, bear as
yet a small proportion to the first. The proportion however will daily
increase. We see in the populous Countries in [18] Europe now, what we
shall be hereafter. These classes understand much less of each others
interests & affairs, than men of the same class inhabiting different
districts. It is particularly requisite therefore that the interests of
one or two of them should not be left entirely to the care, or the [19]
impartiality of the third. This must be the case if landed
qualifications should be required; few of the mercantile, & scarcely any
of the manufacturing class, chusing whilst they continue in business to
turn any part of their Stock into landed property. For these reasons he
wished if it were possible that some other criterion than the mere
possession of land should be devised. He concurred with Mr. GOVr. MORRIS
in thinking that qualifications in the Electors would be much more
effectual than in the elected. The former would discriminate between
real & ostensible property in the latter; But he was aware of the
difficulty of forming any uniform standard that would suit the different
circumstances & opinions prevailing in the different States.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS 2ded. the motion.

On the Question for striking out "landed"

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. no. Va. ay. N.
C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [20]

On [21] Question on [21] 1st. part of Col. Masons proposition as to
qualification of property & citizenship," as so amended

N. H. ay. Masts. ay. Ct. no. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay.
N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [22]

"The 2d. part, for disqualifying debtors, and persons having unsettled
accounts," being under consideration 

Mr. CARROL moved to strike out "having unsettled accounts"

Mr. GHORUM seconded the motion; observing that it would put the
commercial & manufacturing part of the people on a worse footing than
others as they would be most likely to have dealings with the public.

Mr. L. MARTIN. if these words should be struck out, and the remaining
words concerning debtors retained, it will be the interest of the latter
class to keep their accounts unsettled as long as possible.

Mr. WILSON was for striking them out. They put too much power in the
hands of the Auditors, who might combine with rivals in delaying
settlements in order to prolong the disqualifications of particular men.
We should consider that we are providing a Constitution for future
generations, and not merely for the peculiar circumstances of the
moment. The time has been, and will again be, when the public safety may
depend on the voluntary aids of individuals which will necessarily open
accts. with the public, and when such accts. will be a characteristic of
patriotism. Besides a partial enumeration of cases will disable the
Legislature from disqualifying odious & dangerous characters. Mr.
LANGDON was for striking out the whole clause for the reasons given by
Mr. Wilson. So many exclusions he thought too would render the system
unacceptable to the people. Mr. GERRY. If the argumts. used to day were
to prevail, we might have a Legislature composed of public debtors,
pensioners, placemen & contractors. He thought the proposed
qualifications would be pleasing to the people. They will be considered
as a security agst. unnecessary or undue burdens being imposed on them.
He moved to add "pensioners" to the disqualified characters which was
negatived.

N. H. no Mas. ay. Con. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Maryd. ay. Va. no.
N. C. divided. S. C. no. Geo. ay. [23]

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. The last clause, relating to public debtors will
exclude every importing merchant. Revenue will be drawn it is foreseen
as much as possible, from trade. Duties of course will be bonded, and
the Merchts. will remain debtors to the public. He repeated that it had
not been so much the fault of individuals as of the public that
transactions between them had not been more generally liquidated &
adjusted. At all events to draw from our short & scanty experience rules
that are to operate through succeeding ages, does not savour much of
real wisdom.

On [24] question for striking out, "persons having unsettled accounts
with the U. States."

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay. N.
C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. no. [25]

Mr. ELSEWORTH was for disagreeing to the remainder of the clause
disqualifying public debtors; and for leaving to the wisdom of the
Legislature and the virtue of the Citizens, the task of providing agst.
such evils. Is the smallest as well [26] largest debtor to be excluded?
Then every arrear of taxes will disqualify. Besides how is it to be
known to the people when they elect who are or are not public debtors.
The exclusion of pensioners & placemen in Engld. is founded on a
consideration not existing here. As persons of that sort are dependent
on the Crown, they tend to increase its influence.

Mr. PINKNEY sd. he was at first a friend to the proposition, for the
sake of the clause relating to qualifications of property; but he
disliked the exclusion of public debtors; it went too far. It wd.
exclude persons who had purchased confiscated property or should
purchase Western territory of the public, and might be some obstacle to
the sale of the latter.

On the question for agreeing to the clause disqualifying public debtors

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no. N.
C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. ay. [27]

Col. MASON. observed that it would be proper, as he thought, that some
provision should be made in the Constitution agst. choosing for the seat
of the Genl. Govt. the City or place at which the seat of any State
Govt. might be fixt. There were 2 objections agst. having them at the
same place, which without mentioning others, required some precaution on
the subject. The 1st. was that it tended to produce disputes concerning
jurisdiction. The 2d. & principal one was that the intermixture of the
two Legislatures tended to give a provincial tincture to ye. Natl.
deliberations. He moved that the Come. be instructed to receive a clause
to prevent the seat of the Natl. Govt. being in the same City or town
with the Seat of the Govt. of any State longer than until the necessary
public buildings could be erected.

Mr. ALEX. MARTIN 2ded. the motion.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS did not dislike the idea, but was apprehensive that
such a clause might make enemies of Philda. & N. York which had
expectations of becoming the Seat of the Genl. Govt.

Mr. LANGDON approved the idea also: but suggisted the case of a State
moving its seat of Govt. to the natl. seat after the erection of the
public buildings.

Mr. GHORUM. The precaution may be evaded by the Natl. Legislre. by
delaying to erect the public buildings.

Mr. GERRY conceived it to be the genel. sense of America, that neither
the Seat of a State Govt. nor any large commercial City should be the
seat of the Genl. Govt.

Mr. WILLIAMSON liked the idea, but knowing how much the passions of men
were agitated by this matter, was apprehensive of turning them agst. the
System. He apprehended also that an evasion might be practiced in the
way hinted by Mr. Ghorum.

Mr. PINKNEY thought the seat of a State Govt. ought to be avoided; but
that a large town or its vicinity would be proper for the Seat of the
Genl. Govt.

Col. MASON did not mean to press the motion at this time, nor to excite
any hostile passions agst. the system. He was content to withdraw the
motion for the present.

Mr. BUTLER was for fixing by the Constitution the place, & a central
one, for the seat of the Natl. Govt.

The proceedings since Monday last were referred unanimously [28] to the
Come. of detail, and the Convention then unanimously Adjourned till
Monday, Augst. 6. that the Come. of detail might have time to prepare &
report the Constitution. The whole proceedings [29] as referred are as
follow: "[here copy them from the Journal p. 207 [30]

[June 20. [31]
             I. RESOLVED,  That the Government of the United States
                           ought to consist of a supreme legislative,
                           judiciary, and executive.
June 21.    II. RESOLVED,  That the legislature consist of two branches.
June 22.
June 23.   III. RESOLVED,  That the members of the first branch of the
                           legislature ought to be elected by the people
                           of the several states for the term of two years;
                           to be paid out of the publick treasury; to
                           receive an adequate compensation for their
                           services; to be of the age of twenty-five years
                           at least; to be ineligible [32] and incapable of
                           holding any office under the authority of the
                           United States (except those peculiarly
                           belonging to the functions of the first branch)
                           during the term of service of the first branch.
 
June 25.    IV. RESOLVED,  That the members of the second branch of
June 26.                   the legislature of the United States ought to be
                           chosen by the individual legislatures; to be of
                           the age of thirty years at least; to hold their
                           offices for six years, one third to go out
                           biennally; to receive a compensation for the
                           devotion of their time to the publick service;
                           to be ineligible to and incapable of holding any
                           office, under the authority of the United
                           States (except those peculiarly belonging to
                           the functions of the second branch) during the
                           term for which they are elected, and for one
                           year thereafter.
             V. RESOLVED,  That each branch ought to possess the right of
                           originating acts.
Postponed   VI. RESOLVED,  That the national legislature ought to possess
27.                        the legislative rights vested in Congress by the
July 16.                   confederation; and moreover, to legislate in all
July 17.                   cases for the general interests of the union,
                           and also in those to which the states are
                           separately incompetent, or in which the
                           harmony of the United States may be
                           interrupted by the exercise of individual
                           legislation.
           VII. RESOLVED,  That the legislative acts of the United States,
                           made by virtue and in pursuance of the
                           articles of union, and all treaties made and
                           ratified under the authority of the United
                           States, shall be the supreme law of the
                           respective states, as far as those acts or
                           treaties shall relate to the said states, or their
                           citizens and inhabitants; and that the
                           judiciaries of the several states shall be bound
                           thereby in their decisions, any thing in the
                           respective laws of the individual states to the
                           contrary, notwithstanding.
16.       VIII. RESOLVED,  That in the original formation of the
                           legislature of the United States, the first
                           branch thereof shall consist of sixty-five
                           members; of which number

                                 New Hampshire shall send three,
                                 Massachusetts ......     eight,
                                 Rhode Island .......     one,
                                 Connecticut ........     five,
                                 New York ...........     six,
                                 New Jersey .........     four,
                                 Pennsylvania .......     eight,
                                 Delaware ...........     one,
                                 Maryland ...........     six,
                                 Virginia ...........     ten,
                                 North Carolina .....     five,
                                 South Carolina .....     five,
                                 Georgia ............     three.


                           But as the present situation of the states may
                           probably alter in the number of their
                           inhabitants, the legislature of the United States
                           shall be authorized, from time to time, to
                           apportion the number of representatives; and
                           in case any of the states shall hereafter be
                           divided, or enlarged by addition of territory,
                           or any two or more states united, or any new
                           states created within the limits of the United
                           States, the legislature of the United States
                           shall possess authority to regulate the number
                           of representatives, in any of the foregoing
                           cases, upon the principle of their number of
                           inhabitants according to the provisions
                           hereafter mentioned, namely -- Provided
                           always, that representation ought to be
                           proportioned according [33] to direct taxation.
                           And in order to ascertain the alteration in the
                           direct taxation, which may be required from
                           time to time by the changes in the relative
                           circumstances of the states -- 

            IX. RESOLVED,  That a census be taken within six years from
                           the first meeting of the legislature of the
                           United States, and once within the term of
                           every ten years afterwards, of all the
                           inhabitants of the United States, in the
                           manner and according to the ratio
                           recommended by Congress in their resolution
                           of April 18, 1783; and that the legislature of
                           the United States shall proportion the direct
                           taxation accordingly.
             X. RESOLVED,  That all bills for raising or appropriating
                           money, and for fixing the salaries of the
                           officers of the government of the United
                           States, shall originate in the first branch of the
                           legislature of the United States, and shall not
                           be altered or amended by the second branch;
                           and that no money shall be drawn from the
                           publick treasury, but in pursuance of
                           appropriations to be originated by the first
                           branch.
            XI. RESOLVED,  That in the second branch of the legislature of
                           the United States, each state shall have an
                           equal vote.
July 26.   XII. RESOLVED,  That a national executive be instituted, to
                           consist of a single person; to be chosen by the
                           national legislature, for the term of seven
                           years; to be ineligible a second time; with
                           power to carry into execution the national
                           laws; to appoint to offices in cases not
                           otherwise provided for; to be removable on
                           impeachment, and conviction of malpractice
                           or neglect of duty; to receive a fixed
                           compensation for the devotion of his time to
                           [34] publick service; to be paid out of the
                           publick treasury.
July 21.  XIII. RESOLVED,  That the national executive shall have a right
                           to negative any legislative act, which shall not
                           be afterwards passed, unless by two third
                           parts of each branch of the national
                           legislature.
18.        XIV. RESOLVED,  That a national judiciary be established, to
July 21.                   consist of one supreme tribunal, the judges of
18.                        which shall be appointed by the second
                           branch of the national legislature; to hold their
                           offices during good behaviour; to receive
                           punctually, at stated times, a fixed
                           compensation for their services, in which no
                           diminution shall be made, so as to affect the
                           persons actually in office at the time of such
                           diminution.
            XV. RESOLVED,  That the national legislature be empowered to
                           appoint inferior tribunals.
           XVI. RESOLVED,  That the jurisdiction of the national judiciary
                           shall extend to cases arising under laws passed
                           by the general legislature; and to such other
                           questions as involve the national peace and
                           harmony.
          XVII. RESOLVED,  That provision ought to be made for the
                           admission of states lawfully arising within the
                           limits of the United States, whether from a
                           voluntary junction of government and
                           territory, or otherwise, with the consent of a
                           number of voices in the national legislature
                           less than the whole.
         XVIII. RESOLVED,  That a republican form of government shall
                           be guarantied to each state; and that each
                           state shall be protected against foreign and
                           domestick violence.
23.        XIX. RESOLVED,  That provision ought to be made for the
                           amendment of the articles of union,
                           whensoever it shall seem necessary.
            XX. RESOLVED,  That the legislative executive, and judiciary
                           powers, within the several states, and of the
                           national government, ought to be bound, by
                           oath, to support the articles of union.
           XXI. RESOLVED,  That the amendments which shall be offered
                           to the confederation by the convention ought,
                           at a proper time or times after the approbation
                           of Congress, to be submitted to an assembly
                           or assemblies of representatives,
                           recommended by the several legislatures, to
                           be expressly chosen by the people to consider
                           and decide thereon.
          XXII. RESOLVED,  That the representation in the second branch
                           of the legislature of the United States [35]
                           consist of two members from each state, who
                           shall vote per capita.
26.      XXIII. RESOLVED,  That it be an instruction to the committee, to
                           whom were referred the proceedings of the
                           convention for the establishment of a national
                           government, to receive a clause or clauses,
                           requiring certain qualifications of property and
                           citizenship, in the United States, for the
                           executive, the judiciary, and the members of
                           both branches of the legislature of the United
                           States.]


With the above resolutions were referred the propositions offered by Mr.
C. Pinckney on the 29th. of May, & by Mr. Patterson on the 15th. of
June. [36]

___________

1. The word "Mr." is substituted in the transcript for "Col."

2. The figures "1." "2," "3," "4" and "5" are changed to "First,"
"Secondly," "Thirdly" etc. in the transcript.

3. The figures "6" and "7" are changed to "Sixthly" and "Seventhly" in
the transcript.

4. The word "polar" is substituted in the transcript for the word "pole."

5. The words "On the" are here inserted in the transcript.

6. The word "which" is crossed out in the transcript and "it" is written
above it.

7. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, New Jersey,
Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina. South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 7;
Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Delaware, no -- 3; Massachusetts not on the
floor."

8. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Connecticut, New
Jersey, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 6; Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, no -- 3; Massachusetts not on the floor; Virginia,
divided [Mr. Blair and Col. Mason, aye. General Washington and Mr.
Madison no, Mr. Randolph happened to be out of the House.]"

9. The word "National" is here inserted in the transcript.

10. The words "to be" are omitted in the transcript.

11. The word "new" is crossed out and the syllable "re" is written above
it.

12. The word "of" is here inserted in the transcript.

13. The words "might he" are transposed to read "he might" in the
transcript.

14. The word "inconveniency" is changed to "inconvenience" in the
transcript.

15. The word "might" is substituted in the transcript for the word
"would."

16. The word "resource" is erroneously substituted in the transcript for
the word "source."

17. The words "to secure" are substituted for "for securing," in the
transcript.

18. The word "of" is substituted in the transcript for "in."

19. The word "the" is omitted in the transcript.

20. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 10; Maryland, no."

21. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

22. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New
Jersey, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye
-- 8: Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Delaware, no -- 3."

23. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Maryland, Georgia,
aye -- 3; New Hampshire, Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Virginia, South Carolina, no -- 7; North Carolina, divided."

24. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

25. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina,
South Carolina, aye -- 9; New Jersey, Georgia, no -- 2."

26. The words "as the" are here inserted in the transcript.

27. In the transcript the vote reads: "North Carolina, Georgia, aye --
2; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, South Carolina, no -- 9."

28. The words "referred unanimously" are transposed to read "unanimously
referred" in the transcript.

29. The word "proceedings" is crossed out in the transcript and
"Resolutions" is written above it.

30. Madison's direction is omitted in the transcript.

31. The printed Journal says, page 11, that these 23 Resolutions are
"collected from the proceedings of the convention, as they are spread
over the journal from June 16th to July 26th." The dates in the margin
show when the respective Resolutious were adopted. They are omitted in
the transcript.

32. The word "to" is here inserted in the transcript.

33. The word "according" is omitted in the transcript.

34. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

35. The word "shall" is here inserted in the transcript.

36. The word "Adjourned" is here inserted in the transcript.


