Constitutional Quotes

The following quotes make some important points about the principles of 
constitutional republican government:

The Constitution was written to be understood by the voters; its words and 
phrases were used in their normal and ordinary, as distinguished from 
technical meaning; where the intention is clear, there is no room for 
construction, and no excuse for interpolation or addition. -- Martin v. 
Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat 304; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat 419; Brown v. 
Maryland, 12 Wheat 419; Craig v. Missouri, 4 Pet 10; Tennessee v. Whitworth, 
117 U.S. 139; Lake County v. Rollins, 130 U.S. 662; Hodges v. United States, 
203 U.S. 1; Edwards v. Cuba R. Co., 268 U.S. 628; The Pocket Veto Case, 279 
U.S. 655; (Justice) Story on the Constitution, 5th ed., Sec 451; Cooley's 
Constitutional Limitations, 2nd ed., p. 61, 70.

It cannot be presumed that any clause in the constitution is intended to be 
without effect;... -- Marbury v. Madison, 5 U.S. 137, 174 (1803). 

The Constitution is a written instrument. As such, its meaning does not 
alter. That which it meant when it was adopted, it means now. -- South 
Carolina v. United States, 199 U.S. 437, 448 (1905).

History is clear that the first ten amendments to the Constitution were 
adopted to secure certain common law rights of the people, against invasion 
by the Federal Government. -- Bell v. Hood, 71 F. Supp., 813, 816 (1947) 
U.S.D.C., So. Dist. CA.

In the United States, Sovereignty resides in the people, who act through the 
organs established by the Constitution. -- Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall 419, 
471; Penhallow v. Doane's Administrators, 3 Dall 54, 93; McCullock v. 
Maryland, 4 Wheat 316, 404, 405; Yick Yo Hopkins, 118 U.S. 356, 370.

The necessities which gave birth to the constitution, the controversies 
which precede its formation and the conflicts of opinion which were settled 
by its adoption, may properly be taken into view for the purposes of tracing 
to its source, any particular provision of the constitution, in order 
thereby, to be enabled to correctly interpret its meaning. -- Pollock v. 
Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 157 U.S. 429, 558.

The values of the Framers of the Constitution must be applied in any case 
construing the Constitution. Inferences from the text and history of the 
Constitution should be given great weight in discerning the original 
understanding and in determining the intentions of those who ratified the 
constitution. The precedential value of cases and commentators tends to 
increase, therefore, in proportion to their proximity to the adoption of the 
Constitution, the Bill of Rights, or any other amendments. -- Powell v. 
McCormack, 395 U.S. 486, 547 (1969).

To disregard such a deliberate choice of words and their natural meaning, 
would be a departure from the first principle of constitutional 
interpretation. "In expounding the Constitution of the United States," said 
Chief Justice Taney in Holmes v. Jennison, 14 U.S. 540, 570-1, "every word 
must have its due force and appropriate meaning; for it is evident from the 
whole instrument, that, no word was unnecessarily used, or needlessly added. 
The many discussions which have taken place upon the construction of the 
Constitution, have proved the correctness of this proposition; and shown the 
high talent, the caution and the foresight of the illustrious men who framed 
it. Every word appears to have been weighed with the utmost deliberation and 
its force and effect to have been fully understood. -- Wright v. United 
States, 302 U.S. 583 (1938).

The language of the Constitution cannot be interpreted safely, except where 
reference to common law and to British institutions as they were when the 
instrument was framed and adopted. The statesmen and lawyers of the 
convention who submitted it to the ratification of conventions of the 
thirteen states, were born and brought up in the atmosphere of the common 
law and thought and spoke in its vocabulary...when they came to put their 
conclusions into the form of fundamental law in a compact draft, they 
expressed them in terms of common law, confident that they could be shortly 
and easily understood. -- Ex Parte Grossman, 267 U.S. 87, 108.

The courts are not bound by mere forms, nor are they to be misled by mere 
pretences. They are at liberty -- indeed, are under a solemn duty -- to look 
at the substance of things, whenever they enter upon the inquiry whether the 
legislature has transcended the limits of its authority. If therefore, a 
statute purporting to have been enacted to protect the public health, the 
public morals, or the public safety, has no real or substantial relation to 
those objects, or is a palpable invasion of rights secured by the 
fundamental law, it is the duty of thye courts to so adjudge, and thereby 
give effect to the Constitution. -- Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U.S. 623, 661.

Constitutional provisions for the security of person and property should be 
liberally construed. It is the duty of the courts to be watchful of 
constitutional rights against any stealthy encroachments thereon. -- Boyd v. 
U.S., 116 U.S. 635.

It cannot be assumed that the framers of the constitution and the people who 
adopted it, did not intend that which is the plain import of the language 
used. When the language of the constitution is positive and free of all 
ambiguity, all courts are not at liberty, by a resort to the refinements of 
legal learning, to restrict its obvious meaning to avoid the hardships of 
particular cases. We must accept the constitution as it reads when its 
language is unambiguous, for it is the mandate of the sovereign power. -- 
Cook vs. Iverson, 122, N.M. 251.

Where the words of a constitution are unambiguous and in their commonly 
received sense lead to a reasonable conclusion, it should be read according 
to the natural and most obvious import of the framers, without resorting to 
subtle and forced construction for the purpose of limiting or extending its 
operation. -- A State Ex Rel. Torryson v. Grey, 21 Nev. 378, 32 P. 190. 

If the legislature clearly misinterprets a constitutional provision, the 
frequent repitition of the wrong will not create a right. -- Amos v. Mosley, 
74 Fla. 555; 77 So. 619.

A long and uniform sanction by law revisers and lawmakers, of a legislative 
assertion and exercise of power, is entitled to a great weight in construing 
an ambiguous or doubtful provision, but is entitled to no weight if the 
statute in question is in conflict with the plain meaning of the 
constitutional provision. -- Kingsley v. Merril, 122 Wis. 185; 99 NW 1044.

Economic necessity cannot justify a disregard of cardinal constitutional 
guarantee. -- Riley v. Carter, 165 Okal. 262; 25 P. 2d 666; 79 ALR 1018.

Disobedience or evasion of a constitutional mandate may not be tolerated, 
even though such disobedience may, at least temporarily, promote in some 
respects the best interests of the public. -- State v. Board of Examiners, 
274 N.Y. 367; 9 NE 2d 12; 112 ALR 660.

When any court violates the clean and unambiguous language of the 
Constitution, a fraud is perpetrated and no one is bound to obey it. -- (See 
16 Ma. Jur. 2d 177, 178) State v. Sutton, 63 Minn. 147, 65 NW 262, 30 L.R.A. 
630 Am. St. 459.

I cannot subscribe to the omnipotence of a state legislature, or that it is 
absolute and without control; although its authority should not be expressly 
restrained by the Constitution, or fundamental law, of the state. The 
nature, and ends of legislative power will limit the exercise of it. This 
fundamental principle flows from the very nature of our free Republican 
governments, that no man should be compelled to do what the laws do not 
require, nor to refrain from acts which the laws permit. There are acts 
which the Federal, or State, Legislature cannot do, without exceeding their 
authority. There are certain vital principles in our free Republican 
governments, which will determine and overrule an apparent and flagrant 
abuse of legislative power; as to authorize manifest injustice by positive 
law; or to take away that security for personal liberty, or private 
property, for the protection whereof the government was established. An Act 
of the legislature (for I cannot call it a law) contrary to the great first 
principles of the social compact, cannot be considered a rightful exercise 
of legislative authority. The obligation of a law in governments established 
on express compact, and on republican principles, must be determined by the 
nature of the power, on which it is founded. A few instances will suffice to 
explain what I mean. A law that punishes a citizen for an innocent action, 
or, in other words, for an act, which, when done, was in violation of no 
existing law; a law that destroys, or impairs, the lawful private contracts 
of citizens; a law that makes a man a judge in his own cause; or a law that 
takes property from A and gives it to B. It is against all reason and 
justice for a people to intrust a Legislature with such powers; and, 
therefore, it cannot be presumed that they have done it. The genius, the 
nature and the spirit, of our State Government, amount to a prohibition of 
such acts of legislation; and the general principles of law and reason 
forbid them. The legislature may enjoin, permit, forbid, and punish; they 
may declare new crimes, and establish rules of conduct for all its citizens 
in future cases; they may command what is right, and prohibit what is wrong; 
but they cannot change innocence into guilt; or punish innocence as a crime; 
or violate the right of an antecedent lawful private contract; or the right 
of private property. To maintain that our Federal, or State, Legislature 
possesses such powers, if they had not been expressly restrained, would, in 
my opinion, be a political heresy altogether inadmissible in our free 
republican governments. -- Opinion of Justice Chase in Calder v. Bull, 3 
Dallas 386-389 (1798).


